---
title: June 25, 2021 Security Incident Postmortem
subtitle: Publicly Exposed Internal Commons GraphQL Endpoint
toc: true
date: 2021-07-01
---

## Incident Summary

On the morning of June 25, 2021 the GPA Lab team was notified that a security researcher had found the internal GraphQL API endpoint for the [Content Commons](https://commons.america.gov) website exposed to the public at the URL `https://commons.america.gov/graphql`. The researcher reported that using this endpoint they were able to run an introspection query to determine the full schema of the API. With the schema in hand, they were able to run queries to access the application database as demonstrated by querying the list of site users.

Although there appears to have been no actual impact on the system or it's data, the theoretical threat posed to the application by this bug was quite severe. An external actor could have retrieved or modified data in the system causing significant disruptions. All stored data is unclassified and the application is rated as a FISMA low impact system, so the overall adverse effect on the organization from its exploitation would have been limited.

The development team determined that unauthorized access to non-public data was allowed due to an incomplete permissions check in the authorization function on the Commons server. Correcting this misconfiguration was identified as the main priority and work began on immediate corrective action. By mid-afternoon, a patch was deployed to the production application, restoring proper authentication checks on queries to the API endpoint.

Disabling introspection (the ability to extract the API schema) as recommended by the security researcher was explored, but was not immediately possible. The Commons client application depends on introspection to successfully retrieve certain information and disabling it would disrupt the current user base that depends on the product. After addressing the critical flaw in the permissions check, the development returned to the lesser issue of introspection and worked on a non-disruptive solution. Over the next few days, the development team was able to successfully move all introspection-dependent operations to the server obviating the need for client-side introspection. On July 1, the development team deployed a second patch to the production site disabling introspection.

While patching the authentication functionality resolved the greatest vulnerability and disabling introspection helps obscure the API structure from potential attackers, the ideal solution would be to prevent all external access to the endpoint. The development/operations team will investigate whether changes can be made to the application structure or Content Delivery Network (CDN) page rules to exclude all traffic that does not originate from the Commons application itself.

## Lead Up

In anticipation of the addition of internal (i.e. non-public) content types to Content Commons, the development team began laying the ground work for a more secure method of storing static assets (images, documents, etc.) beginning in Version 3.0.0 of the Commons client ([released December 2, 2019](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md#3002019-12-02)). With this change, rather than providing direct access to the static assets, the application would use AWS credentials stored on the server to generate cryptographically signed URLs. These signed URLs would only be generated for authenticated users and allowed for time-bound access to the requested resource. Since there was as yet no internal content on the site, the buckets were left open to the public and unauthenticated users received a fallback URL directly to the public URL.

On February 7, 2020, a new function called `requiresRole` was [introduced](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/commit/776e44c173728a0e7a73b678edcc9c5883924d1d#diff-ef8ac57a76d13203a8de960a5ad2561fe3be4cdb0a7b3e0d5fc00059f2bdbf44) to the authentication workflow. This function is used to determine whether the current user possesses the role (e.g. admin, subscriber) required to complete the action they are attempting. All critical resolvers were wrapped in this function to prevent users from executing unauthorized operations.

Version 4.0.0 of the Content Commons ([released April 27, 2020](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/blob/develop/CHANGELOG.md#400)) introduced the first internal content type (guidance packages). The introduction of internal content necessitated the full implementation of the signed URL flow first introduced in v3.0.0. This consisted of completely locking down the S3 storage buckets to prevent public access and removing the fallback public URLs for unauthenticated users.

While this setup improved the security of internal content, it posed a problem when serving static content intended for public consumption (such as thumbnail images on the front page of the Commons site). An unauthenticated user, visiting Commons would now be blocked from accessing all assets whether internal or not. To get around this problem, on May 27, 2020 we [created a generic "public user"](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/31) initialized for every unauthenticated session. This public user was permitted to request signed URLs for public assets but not internal content.

There were already concerns at the time this public user was introduced regarding whether it was an appropriate approach to the problem at hand. As mentioned by the team tech lead during code review for this feature:

> "I am not sure that I like using the id prop of a user to discern a public permission. It seems to me that we should add another permission to account for this scenario and have the client check permissions as opposed to checking an id. The question is, however, is this an interim solution? We will ultimately move to a multi bucket arrangement with internal and public buckets?
>
> If that is the case then the most straightforward implementation, i.e. using the id is probably correct"

However, for sake of expediency the approach was accepted as a temporary solution with the intention to replace it with a more optimal solution in the near future. Despite these concerns a vulnerability introduced by the addition of a public user went unnoticed. Specifically, an oversight in the way that the `requiresRole` function was constructed granted the public user much greater scope than intended, including the ability to run any query.

## Fault

The `requiresRole` function performs a check on the current user to ensure that:

1. The user exists (i.e. a valid user profile is provided)
1. The user has the required role (as provided to the function)

As demonstrated in the snippet below, if these two conditions are fulfilled, the function will return the requested resolver. Otherwise, it will throw an authentication error.

```js
if ( context.user && ( !role || context.user.permissions.includes( role ) ) ) {
  return resolver( parent, args, context, info );
}
  throw new AuthenticationError( 'Unauthorized' );
}
```

The public user has no role assigned to them, so had the check been for `adminsOnly` or `subscribersOnly` the requested operations would have failed due to lacking permissions. Unfortunately, the `requiresLogin` check used for on operation resolvers simply requires the presence of a valid user profile irrespective of role. This overlooks the existence of the public user and depends on the mistaken assumption that only authenticated users have a valid user profile. The net result was to allow unauthenticated users to perform operations intended to be restricted to authenticated users.

## Impact

This vulnerability was discovered by a security researcher who responsibly disclosed their findings. There is no evidence to indicate that the vulnerability was exploited by malicious actors. To the best of our knowledge, no data was lost or modified and there was no user impact as a result of remediation. Aside from the test queries executed by the researcher, there is no indication that any sensitive data was accessed or exfiltrated by unauthorized parties.

That said, the theoretical impact could have been quite dramatic. Unauthorized users querying the API endpoint could have accessed site data including unclassified text content intended for internal use, site user information, and project/file metadata. The mutations used to write this data to the database were similarly protected by the flawed authentication function. As a result, a malicious actor could have potentially altered, added, or removed data from the database.

One of the Content Commons's key functions is storing and distributing files such as press guidance, graphic files, and videos. After querying the API to locate file ids, a malicious actor would have been able to download such files or delete them from the system. They would not have been able to modify existing files or upload new ones.

Frequent backups mean that we could have quickly restored the database to its previous state in the case of an adverse incident.

## Detection

The problem was not detected by the team and was only discovered due to a responsible disclosure. The initial bug report bounced around through several offices until it was finally directed to the Lab team. Remediation work could have begun much sooner if the reporting individual had a direct line to the Lab development team.

Including a security policy on the site and/or our public code repositories could dramatically reduce the time between the discovery of a bug by a third party and when the Lab team begins to work on remediation. This policy would outline what the expectations are with regard to responsible disclosure and provide a direct means of contact whereby individuals could notify the Lab team as to security issues.

Furthermore, robust unit tests that specifically address the authentication workflow should be added. Particular effort should be made to test against the public user and unexpected user values.

## Response

Upon receiving notification of the vulnerability the Lab development team immediately began working on a patch. The source of the bug was traced to the `requiresLogin` permissions check wrapping the system's resolvers. This check did not properly account for the default user profile and therefore permitted unauthenticated users to access the API's data.

The team developed a patch to correct the most pressing aspects of the vulnerability and tested it in their beta environment (a replica of production) so as not to pollute tests with other work in progress. Once satisfied that the patch resolved the most pressing issues without adversely impacting the site sites, a hotfix was applied to the production environment.

While not noted by the initial vulnerability disclosure, the report forwarded from Vulnerability Remediation Coordination noted that a number of non-standard ports were open on the commons.america.gov domain (specifically 8080, 2052, 2053, 2082, 2083, 2086, 2087, 2095, 2096, 8443, 8880). This struck us as odd given that the Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) sitting in front of the application blocks all ports other than 80 and 443 (required to access the API). Further investigation identified that while the non-standard ports were indeed closed at the ELB level, they appear open higher in the stack at the content delivery network (CDN) level. Out of an abundance of caution, we adjusted our Web Application Firewall settings to return a `403 Forbidden` error on all non-standard ports.

Obstacles:

- The Lab team's system administrator and technical lead were both out of the office when the vulnerability was reported. While they were able to contribute and their help was invaluable, their access to necessary systems was somewhat limited and the timing of the incident was unfortunate. The lack of a back-up system administrator was particularly disruptive especially when issues arose in our beta environment when deploying the patch for testing.
- The beta environment, which had recently been reconstructed, was not fully prepared for testing. Namely:
  - Some members of the dev team did not have access to the beta site and had to get whitelisted before they could access it for testing.
  - One of the build configurations was set incorrectly causing it to pull the wrong image from ECR and thereby failing.
  - One member of the development team was prevented from correcting an issue on the deployment server because they lacked adequate permissions and had to defer to the off-duty systems administrator.
  - Unrelated issues with the connection to the public API were causing anomalies in the beta environment. At times it was difficult to distinguish between anomalies inherent to the somewhat unstable environment and those caused by the patch. This obviously hampered testing somewhat and decreased confidence in the remediation efforts.
- The beta environment sits behind an authentication layer provided by Cloudflare Access, so that it is not available to the general public. This led to some deceptive test results since any user accessing the site was by definition an authenticated user. As a result it was impossible to test the site as an unauthenticated user until Cloudflare Access was temporarily disabled.

All of these obstacles were overcome fairly quickly, but increased the stress on the team and the difficulty of troubleshooting the issue, lengthening response time.

## Recovery

There was no downtime or data loss so recovery was not required.

## Timeline

All times are EDT.

**June 24, 2021**

16:13 - Vulnerability Remediation Coordination (VRC) receives the vulnerability disclosure submission and assigns the report the id #2021-06-0010. VRC recommended classifying the vulnerability as critical and set a remediation deadline of July 15, 2021. The report is forwarded to GPA/EX/IT for routing to the appropriate team.

18:08 - GPA/EX/IT identifies the Lab team as the party responsible for Content Commons and the report if forwarded to the Lab team's point of contact (POC).

**June 25, 2021**

09:19 - The Lab team POC receives the report from GPA/EX/IT.

09:29 - The Lab development team is alerted to the vulnerability and begins to work on a path to remediation.

10:15 - The dev team identified that the generic public user was unexpectedly passing the authentication check in the `requiresLogin` function. It was determined that by adding an additional check to ensure that the user was an actual authenticated user and not the public user, this bypass could be closed. The dev team begins working on a hotfix to patch the vulnerability.

10:50 - The hotfix branch is pushed to source control and deployed to the beta environment for testing. This first deployment fails silently due to a misconfiguration in the beta deployment pipeline.

11:09 - Problem identified with the first patch whereby it blocked public assets for unauthenticated users.

11:21 - System administrator changes WAF configuration to return a `403 Forbidden` error on all non-standard ports (i.e anything other than 80 and 443).

12:22 - Errors in the patch corrected and deployment pipeline failures resolved. The updated patch applied to the beta environment and released for integration testing.

12:53 - Further adjustment to patch required when found to throw an error when retrieving the current user in the beta environment. (Although there was no apparent impact on functionality, we thought it best to address the error)

13:23 - Final patch merged into the master branch of commons-server and a new release ([v5.4.3](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/releases/tag/v5.4.3)) tagged.

13:40 - Patch hotfix deployed to the production server.

14:00 - Patch tested in production and found to work as expected. Namely, unauthenticated users were now blocked from accessing restricted data from the `/graphql` endpoint.

14:10 - With the most critical vulnerability patched, the incident is deemed over. Work will continue over the coming week to further harden the API endpoint.

14:40 - GPA Lab notifies EX/IT that the most critical issues have been resolved and indicates what work remains to be done.

**June 27, 2021**

16:27 - [Patch disabling introspection](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/commit/da56a5df24ac435fa8ecf157872235fdeffb7871) is deployed to the beta environment for testing. Discovered that parts of the application depend on introspection and will to be refactored before this patch can be applied to the production environment.

**June 30, 2021**

10:00 - Commons Sprint Planning Meeting. Several tickets are added to address the remaining issues. Specifically:

- [CDP-2437](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2437): Disable client-side introspection in production (added to current sprint).
- [CDP-2445](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2445): Wrap all remaining resolvers in authentication function (added to current sprint).
- [CDP-2439](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2439): Separate public and internal content into distinct buckets and remove the generic public user (added to the backlog).
- [CDP-2438](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2438): Add a security policy to the Commons site (added to the backlog).

12:33 - Submitted [amended patch](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/63) to disable introspection and move all introspection dependent operations to the server for code review.

17:34 - Patch disabling introspection is accepted, merged into the master branch, and deployed to the beta environment for testing.

**July 01, 2021**

09:48 - Patch disabling introspection passes testing on the beta environment. A new release of both the client ([v5.5.0](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/releases/tag/v5.5.0)) and the server ([v5.5.0](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/releases/tag/v5.5.0)) are tagged.

10:07 - The development team decided to postpone the deployment of the introspection patch until the end of the day. This decision was made to minimize the potential impact on the users. Particular caution was taken given that 1) the deployment required both server and client changes, 2) the client pipeline was newly set up and had not been used yet, and 3) the system administrator was still out of the office.

17:21 - Patch disabling introspection is deployed to the production site and found to function as expected.

## Root Cause Identification

- External users were able to query the Commons internal API for non-public data.
- Because the `requiresLogin` permissions check allowed any valid user - including the default public user - to query data.
- Because we did not take the public user profile into account when writing the authentication wrappers for our resolvers.
- Because the authentication flow is needlessly complicated.
- Because the public user profile is a bit of a kludge used to retrieve public content from a private S3 bucket.

## Root Cause

An unexpected interaction between the generic public user profile assigned to unauthenticated users and our resolver authentication checks granted unauthenticated users overly-broad permissions.

## Backlog Check

The development team has for some time now discussed separating out the storage of assets into a public and a private bucket depending whether the content is for public or internal consumption. While this does not directly address the root cause of the incident, it would obviate the need for a public user dramatically simplifying the authentication flow and avoiding the opportunity for such a mistake.

Work started on this task on July 28, 2020 (tickets [CDP-2178](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2178) and [CDP-2179](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2179)) but deferred multiple times due to repeated shifts in priorities. At the time, deferral was considered acceptable because the changes were seen as optimizations rather than a security concern. Furthermore, while it would simplify the authentication flow, a two bucket setup would further complicate the publishing flow and possibly introduce other unanticipated issues. This decision should be revisited and improvements to the authentication process should be prioritized.

## Recurrence

There have been no other known incidents resulting from this misapplied permissions check.

## Corrective Actions

### Public User Check

Immediate corrective action was taken to close the hole in the authentication process. A new wrapper function `requiresId` was added to ensure that the user profile not only exists, but that it contains an id value distinct from that of the public user profile.

```js
export const requiresId = () => (resolver) => {
  if (isFunction(resolver)) {
    return (parent, args, context, info) => {
      if (context.user && context.user.id && context.user.id !== 'public') {
        return resolver(parent, args, context, info);
      }
      throw new AuthenticationError('Unauthorized');
    };
  }
  if (isObject(resolver)) {
    return mapValues(resolver, requiresId());
  }
  throw new Error('Resolver has to be Object or Function');
};
```

The `requiresLogin` check was then augmented with the above id check successfully blocking unauthenticated users from querying the database.

### Introspection

In order to further harden the API endpoint we should disable introspection in production. This would prevent malicious actors from inspecting the full API endpoint in order to sniff out areas for exploitation.

To accomplish this we can simply set introspection to false in production when initializing Apollo Server as so:

```js
const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  introspection: process.env.NODE_ENV !== 'production',
});
```

Unfortunately, this measure is not immediately possible because we use several enum queries in the client application that depend on introspection. Namely:

- `COPYRIGHT_QUERY`
- `VIDEO_QUALITY_QUERY`
- `IMAGE_QUALITY_QUERY`
- `VIDEO_BURNED_IN_STATUS_QUERY`
- `VISIBILITY_QUERY`
- `PERMISSION_QUERY`

These queries do not return data from the database like typical queries. Rather, the return a list of enumerated values listed in the schema, hence he need for introspection. We were able to move these operations to the server and access the resulting query values by means of enum value resolvers. This eliminated the need for for client-side introspection.

_Update (July 02, 2021)_ This issues was addressed in [CDP-2437](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2437) and deployed to production on July 1. All client-side introspection queries were replaced with server-side operations. This allowed us to disable introspection in production.

### Unauthenticated Operations

The development team also identified a number of operations that were publicly queryable not because of the flaw in the `requiresLogin` function, but because they we not wrapper with any authentication function. Specifically, the following operations were left open:

| Resolver     | Query                | Mutation       |
| ------------ | -------------------- | -------------- |
| **Bureau**   | bureau               | createBureau   |
|              | bureaus              |                |
| **Language** | language             | createLanguage |
|              | languages            | updateLanguage |
|              | languageTranslation  |                |
|              | languageTranslations |                |
| **Region**   | country              | createRegion   |
|              | countries            |                |
|              | region               |                |
|              | regions              |                |
| **Taxonomy** | category             | createCategory |
|              | categories           | createTag      |
|              | tag                  | updateCategory |
|              | tags                 | updateTag      |
| **Team**     | team                 |                |
|              | teams                |                |
| **User**     | users                |                |

We wrapped the users query in the patched `requiresLogin` function as part of the initial hotfix (i.e. v5.4.3 release). However, some of the operations must be left unauthenticated as they interface with the Commons frontend, even when accessed by an unauthenticated user. If possible we should phase these operations out in favor of retrieving data from the public API.

There are also a number of sub-query operations that are chained together to compose larger queries. We do not believe that these can be called directly and therefore they should inherit the authentication of their parent query. However, we will investigate these sub-queries further to ensure that the do not put system data at risk.

A ticket ([CDP-2445](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2445)) was created to find and wrap all remaining remaining operation that lack authentication.

_Update (July 17, 2021)_ CDP-2445 was merged into the develop branch on July 12 and tested in the development environment. The fix wrapped all operations other aside from the regions query resolvers. The countries search filter is populate via these GraphQL operations, so for the time being we have chosen to leave the query in place. In any case, all an unauthenticated user could extract from querying these values is a list of countries, which is by no means sensitive. These changes were later merged into the master branch and deployed to production on July 17.

### Disable External Access to the API Endpoint

An even better solution than those listed above is to block all traffic to the GraphQL endpoint that does not originate from the Commons application itself. The development/operations team will investigate whether this is possible but must be wary so as not to adversely impact current users of the application. A ticket ([CDP-2494](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2494)) was created to disable the `/graphql` endpoint.

_Update (August 27, 2021)_ CDP-2494 was merged into the develop branch on July 21 and tested in the development environment. After some application refactoring, the team was able to completely disable the `/graphql` endpoint. Now, upon visiting the endpoint, the server will not return anything and instead the user will be greeted with a 400 Bad Request error. This will occur for all users, even those authenticated into the application. These changes were later merged into the master branch and deployed to production in Commons release 5.7.0 on August 27.

### Eliminate the Public User

While not a vulnerability in and of itself, the generic public user adds a layer of complexity to the authentication process. It is a brittle solution that has a high probability of resulting in bugs (whether security related or otherwise). We added a ticket to the backlog ([CDP-2439](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2439)) to eliminate this user. Any such action will need to be preceded by the separation of public and internal content into distinct S3 storage buckets.

### Security Policy

In the case of this incident, the lengthiest part of the initial response phase was the receipt of information regarding the discovered vulnerability. Approximately 16 hours passed between the initial vulnerability report and the Lab dev team receiving word regarding the issue. Once the issue was reported to the Lab development team, the critical flaw was resolved in just under five hours.

In order to shorten this response time, we should add security policy to the document pages of the Commons site and include a link to this page in the site footer. This policy will direct individuals who discover vulnerabilities on how to best report them directly to our team and should be modeled on the Department's [vulnerability disclosure policy](https://www.state.gov/vulnerability-disclosure-policy/). We added a ticket to the backlog ([CDP-2438](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2438)) to add such a policy to our site and public repositories.

Additionally, we had only one point of contact receiving the alert. It is unreasonable for one person to monitor the reporting channels 24/7. If possible, all security vulnerability reports should be sent to multiple team members to ensure a timely response.
