---
title: Ad Hoc Commons Deployment
tags: [Commons, Deployment Checklist, Security Incident]
date: 2022-03-23
excerpt: "Minutes from the March 23, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting."
---

On the morning of March 23 the team received a request to add Ukrainian as an available language to Commons (specifically for graphics projects). A hot-fix ticket was added ([CDP-2909](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2909)) and assigned to Marek. Given the limited scope of this request, deployment planning and execution was limited to Michael and Marek.

While they were working on this deployment, a vulnerability notification from the Cybersecurity Integrity Center arrived. At that point Michael and Marek pivoted to resolving the issue.

## Deployment Checklist

**Update Window:** Wednesday March 23, 3:00 PM

**Personnel:** Marek, Michael, Temi

**Content Freeze:** Not required

**Order of Operation:**

1. Update changelogs for API, client, and server
1. Tag the releases
   - API: patch -> v6.1.1
   - Client: patch -> v5.13.2
   - Server: patch -> v5.11.1
1. Take snapshots for backup (Prisma DB, Elasticsearch)
1. Run the builds via Jenkins:
   - Execute `prisma seed` build (to add Ukrainian to server)
   - Execute client
   - _Note that while the API and server repos were changed and tagged to add Ukrainian to the seed files, those respective builds do not utilize these seed files. In other words running these builds has no effect and can therefore be omitted._
1. Seed the API taxonomy
   - [Generate prod bearer token](#generate-token)
   - Map api.america.gov to appropriate IPs
   - Use Postman to send `cdp_language.csv` to the bulk upload endpoint (add Ukrainian)

<details id="generate-token">
  <summary><strong>Generate GraphQL Bearer Token</strong></summary>
  <ol>
    <li>Download the Commons server repo (<code>git clone git@github.com:IIP-Design/content-commons-server.git</code>)</li>
    <li>Navigate into the repo directory <code>cd content-commons-server</code></li>
    <li>At the root of this directory, create file called <code>.env</code></li>
    <li>Within this file, add entries for the following variables and populate them with the appropriate values:
      <ul>
        <li><code>ES_APP_USER</code></li>
        <li><code>ES_APP_SECRET</code></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Install the needed dependencies by running <code>npm install</code></li>
    <li>Generate the token by running <code>npm run token</code>. This will print the generated token to your terminal.</li>
  </ol>
</details>

## Bucket Takeover Vulnerability

The Lab team received the following report from IRM's Cybersecurity Integrity Center:

> On March 17, 2022, using log analysis, the Blue Team (BT) has identified multiple unclaimed S3 buckets in AWS associated with America.gov. This vulnerability occurs when an S3 bucket is deleted but a CNAME DNS record pointing to the bucket is left in place. Attackers can create S3 buckets with the same name, allowing them to host malicious files on the victim’s domain. While the BT has not identified evidence of active compromise, these DNS records place America.gov at continued risk of this kind of subdomain takeover.

The report went on to the specify that the following URLs were resolving to unclaimed S3 buckets:

- `staticshare.america.gov.cdn.cloudflare.net`
- `statictranslations.america.gov.cdn.cloudflare.net`

These URLs are related to the S3 buckets that were used to store static assets for the ShareAmerica and Translations WordPress sites before their transition to the Web team. Michael and Marek investigated the issue and found that a January 10 change to the proxy status of these subdomain CNAMEs caused the unclaimed bucket issue. They also discovered that the `staticstatemag` CNAME was impacted by the same issue.

Michael deleted the three problematic CNAME records which resolved the vulnerability. Additionally, in an effort to maintain a cleaner dashboard, Michael deleted the following obsolete records:

| type  | name                         |
| ----- | ---------------------------- |
| CNAME | publications.america.gov     |
| A     | www.publications.america.gov |
| CNAME | interactive.america.gov      |
| A     | www.interactive.america.gov  |
| CNAME | share.america.gov            |
| CNAME | statemag.state.gov           |
| A     | www.statemag.state.gov       |
| CNAME | translations.state.gov       |

A more detailed explanation of this vulnerability and remediation efforts is available in the full [security incident report]({{ '/postmortems/2022/03/23' | relative_url }}).
