---
title: May 17, 2022
tags: [Commons, Prisma 3, PHP Updates]
date: 2022-05-17
excerpt: "Minutes from the May 17, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which Terri explains Prisma 3."
---

## Prisma 3

**Description:** The bulk of the meeting consisted of Terri's presentation on the migration to Prisma 3. The presentation provided a deep dive on the migration or Commons server from Prisma 1 to Prisma 3. In her talk, Terri presented:

1. An overview of Prisma 3 and how it differs from Prisma 1
1. A discussion of Prisma 3 data models and how they differ from Prisma 1 schemas
1. A demonstration of the changes to Prima client and the way resolvers are written to be compatible with the the new Prisma
1. A quick introduction to Prisma Studio

The [presentation slides]({{ '/presentations/prisma-3' | relative_url }}) have also been posted.

## Commons QA Testing

**Description:** Ahmad and Temi had some questions pertaining to the admin management dashboard tickets in QA. Specifically, they were wondering how they should craft the test cases and whether they could pass the tickets given that there is no save functionality on the user and team pages.

Edwin clarified that the user and team management pages will utilize the same autosave functionality found elsewhere on the site. This will be accompanied with the green growl notification that will ne visible at the top of the page when the save runs. This cannot be tested until everything is hooked up to the backend and at the moment we are just moving forward with the pages' UI. As such the tickets can move forward and test cases for the save functionality will be added once everything gets connected.

## Server Updates

**Description:** Michael and Marek briefly chatted about the difficulties that they ran into in updating the several core packages on the development server. These updates were prompted by a report from the Cybersecurity Integrity Center (CIC) regarding the version of PHP and OpenSSL in use on the server. Updating PHP is relatively easy, however, the version of OpenSSL used is baked into the PHP distribution provided by the Amazon Linux package manager. Michael is concerned that we may need to recompile PHP from source if we want to utilize a specific version OpenSSL.

**Next Steps:** Michael will continue to dig into the best update path for OpenSSL. Marek will respond to the CIC regarding our remediation efforts.
