---
title: May 24, 2022
tags: [Commons, Release Notes, Jenkins, Naming Conventions]
date: 2022-05-24
excerpt: "Minutes from the May 24, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we plan for a post-Prisma 3 world."
---

## Commons Quick Hits

- Terri wondered why the COVID tag was missing from the tags seeding CSV file. She found that it was added directly to the CSV file. Later, when the repatriation tag was added using the `createCSV` function, the COVID tag was removed. She will add it back for now, but we should be mindful running the `createCSV` function as it will clear out that tag again. We need to revisit the seeding process writ large to ensure that we can keep everything in sync properly (particularly with the move toward the management dashboard).
- Edwin is having issues with his local Elasticsearch Docker container. He is getting an error message that the connection is being refused. Marek said that he has experienced this in the past and recommended deleting the container and recreating it (this should not result in data loss as it is stored in a volume).

## Commons Release Notes

**Description:** Marek asked to discuss how we want to number the Commons releases on the site's [release notes page](https://commons.america.gov/releasenotes). To date we have largely used the client version number as the release number. Usually this makes sense, but the latest release indicates why this is not always a great idea. Namely, Friday's release was a major change for the server, but only a patch change for the client. As such, the release notes indicate a small change, when it really is much more dramatic.

Marek suggested that the Commons releases should be treated independently from it's constituent repositories (i.e. - API, client, server). In other words, the number in the release notes will not necessarily match the tags in any of the repos. With each release, the release notes will be incremented at the level of the highest release of the constituent repos.

> **Example:**
> Say the current Commons release is at v5.13.6 we run a release with an major update to API, a minor update to the client, and a patch update to the server.
>
> - API going from v6.1.2 to v7.0.0
> - Client going from v5.13.6 to v5.14.0
> - Server going from v6.0.0 to v6.0.1
>
> Since the greatest change in the is a major change in the API, we would apply a major change to the Commons release notes (i.e. v5.13.6 => v6.0.0).

We don't necessarily need to re-number existing releases, but we should follow this practice going forward.

Another flaw with the release notes in their current state is that there is no date associated with each release. This limits the utility of the release notes, which are meant to notice users not only that something has changed, but also when this change occurred. This is easily rectified by dating each release.

It also bears repeating that the intended audience for the release notes are the non-technical Commons users. As such, the release notes entries shouldn't necessarily match the changelogs for the client, API, and server repos. They should avoid technical jargon, emphasize changes that are user-facing, and explain why changes were made.

## Post-Prisma 3 Deployment Tasks

**Description:** The team discussed tasks that have arisen from the migration to Prisma 3. Of greatest importance is merging all of the changes back into our typical working branch (`develop`) and synchronizing our local and development environments.

### Already Done

- Double check that the press guidance DB archive [URL](https://pressguidance2.state.gov/) is still valid. After consulting with Clara & Farshad, Marek confirmed that this link should be removed and added a [ticket](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2992) to do so.
- Delete the test document created by Temi under the press team (id: `cl3f36vxb22910hhpsxnmnb2r`). Terri removed it yesterday using Postman.
- Add IME users and teams. Note that some users already existing in the system so they should have their team/role changed. Terri completed this yesterday.

### Remaining

- Currently the `commons.america.gov/graphql` endpoint accessible (with authentication) from outside of the application. The team will do some research as to whether this is a concern and evaluate the best way to address it if it is.
- Update the Prisma package to at least 3.13 in the `package.json`. This was an issue during the migration since it caused an incompatibility with the version of OpenSSL used on the Ubuntu build server. We were using Ubuntu for the migration specifically because it allowed us to install pgloader. Going forward build will occur from our regular build server so this should no longer be an issue. Nevertheless, we can include this as part of broader server dependency updates that _**Terri**_ will complete.
- _**Michael**_ will setup automated backup script for the new database.
- _**Marek**_ will finish up some house keeping on the Commons repo branches. For both the client and server repos:
  1. merge `main` into `develop` to pull the changes back into our working branch
  1. merge `debt` into `develop` to bring in updates since the migration into the working branches
  1. delete the `debt` and `master` branches which are no longer needed (do this on the API as well)
- With the production environment using Prisma 3, we need to spread the fun to our testing environments (dev, beta). As such, _**Michael**_ will:
  1. Update the data sync script used by beta to work with the new PostgreSQL database
  1. Update dev environment to Prisma 3
  1. Update beta environment to Prisma 3
  1. Spin down QA environment
- _**Terri**_ will identify a way to clean up the content fields table (and maybe others like support files), which has lots of redundant orphaned content entries (due to a lack of a cascade on the previous database). These extraneous items should be removed.
- _**Marek**_ will investigate the discrepancy between published document files in Elasticsearch and Prisma that he discovered while updating the HR bureau name.

**Next Steps:** Marek will notify each person which of the above tasks they are responsible for. That person can then create their own Jira tickets as appropriate.

## Jenkins Naming Conventions

**Description:** We have been a bit haphazard in the way we name our Jenkins builds. As a result the Jenkins interface has become a bit confusing to use.

To improve the situation we should Jenkins build naming conventions: `env_platform_service`. For example the Commons client dev build would be `dev_commons_client` or the production Content site would be `prod_content_wordpress`.

Valid envs:

- `dev`
- `qa` - maybe
- `beta`
- `prod`

Example valid platforms:

- `commons`
- `content` - the content WordPress site
- `courses` - the courses WordPress site
- `lab` - the lab WordPress site
- `iip_digital_archive` - the IIP digital archive site

There are probably more valid platform names and service names can be pretty much anything. We should conduct a full audit of our build names and determine what should be renamed. We should also delete all the old decommissioned builds that are no longer in use.
