---
title: May 26, 2022
tags: [Commons, Prisma 3]
date: 2022-05-26
excerpt: "Minutes from the May 26, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we discuss Commons."
---

## Commons Catch Up

**Description:** Today's developer meeting was focused on getting everyone caught up with the status of Commons following the Prisma 3 deployment.

### Sprint Velocity

Terri expressed some concern about the plan to complete the user management epic within the current sprint. The team agreed that this timeline may be a bit aggressive given the need to connect all the queries and test compatibility with the new Prisma 3 setup.

Terri suggesting switching to a three week sprint cycle, particularly if we intend to have all tickets make it through testing by the end of the sprint, otherwise this leaves only a couple days for development.

To a certain extent we can limit the concern by pruning the scope of the sprint a bit. Edwin pointed out that there are several tickets in this sprint for which there are no mocks (or no need). For example, the advanced user management flows described in [CDP-2901](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2901) and [CDP-2838](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2838) are not needed and these tickets should be moved back into the backlog.

Similarly, the quick edit options (and their associated modals) are an advanced feature that can be disregarded for the time being. Finally, Edwin will remove the team admin-related fields from the teams form since we're not permitting that capability at the moment.

### Testing

These considerations bubble up to Temi and Ahmad who need additionally clarity as to what will and will not be included this sprint so that they can appropriately update their test cases. Since the mocks do not keep pace with the decisions made in various meetings, they are a bit uncertain as to what they should be testing.

Going forward, they will ideally have up to date mocks and a list of acceptance criteria in the tickets. These criteria can then be extracted from the tickets and used as the basis of their test scripts.

### Backups

Michael continued working on the back up and restore process for the new database. He reported that the backup portion works but the restore step is complicated by the same issues we ran into when migration production. Namely the unique key constraint checks are triggered, failing the restore. During the production migration process we extracted a list of tables, split the list by table, and then restored in a order that avoided the foreign key constraints. This is still doable in a disaster recovery situation as it'll happen rarely. However, a more optimal solution would do this programmatically, since manually breaking up and restoring the list of tables is both slower and more error prone.

There are several approaches to programmatically splitting the list. One is to provide the backup script a list of table groupings. The script could then split and restore the dump in the same way we have done manually. The downside to this method is that the list would have to be updated when we change the schema in a way that alters the list of tables or adds/removes a foreign key constraint. Marek wondered if it was possible to programmatically infer the order in which the tables should be restored by checking the foreign key constraints.

Marek also suggested that we join the bi-weekly AWS office hours to seek guidance on how best to get around this limitation. Terri will submit a question via their request form ahead of the next meeting.
