---
title: December 07, 2021
tags: [Restore Script]
date: 2021-12-07
excerpt: "Minutes from the December 07, 2021 GPA Lab developer's meeting. Focused on implementing the press guidance data restoration script"
---

## Press Guidance Restore Script

In this meeting the team discussed our plan to restore the limited document data loss from the Prisma database that we discovered on September 17. Terri wrote a [recovery script](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/89) to reconstruct the missing items from data stored in Elasticsearch. Marek reviewed and tested the changes locally and merged them in yesterday (Dec. 6).

Terri wondered whether the restoration script should be run from the `develop` branch or the forthcoming `debt` branch. The team agreed that it doesn't particularly matter, especially since the code containing the script has already been merged into `develop`.

Below are the preparatory steps required to run the restoration in the new QA environment:

- Pull the latest server code from the `develop` branch
- Restore the Prisma db from the latest backup
- Restore the Elasticsearch indices from the latest backup
- Make sure that the envars are set
  - `AWS_S3_PRODUCTION_BUCKET` -> the appropriate S3 bucket (i.e. `staticcdp` in production)
  - `INDEXING_DOMAIN=commons.america.gov`
  - `ES_API_VERSION=7.x`
  - `ELASTICSEARCH_HOST=localhost:9200`
  - `AWS_REGION=us-east-1`
  - `PRISMA_DATABASE` -> name of database (ex. `commons@prod`)
- Install temporary packages by running `npm install elasticsearch http-aws-es ajv json-diff`
- Execute the restore script with `npm run restore`
- Upon completion uninstall temporary packages with `npm uninstall elasticsearch http-aws-es ajv json-diff`

## Elasticsearch Type Issue

Terri discovered that after the restoration users will no longer be able to republish restored items. This is because during the restoration, the `_type` property on each item is set to the default value `_doc`. This property can only have one value, so when the republish occurs and tries to assign the value `document` or `package` it will fail. This issue was not unexpected, since we observed it previously when [restoring Elasticsearch from backups]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/09/28.html#elasticsearch-degraded-service' | relative_url }}). While unconfirmed at the moment, we suspect that this would be the case for all Elasticsearch documents within the restore index (including newly created ones).

Luckily, we already have a [fix for this issue](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2748) in progress and hope to complete it within the sprint beginning tomorrow (Dec. 8). The fix is rather simple, in that we will be removing the portion of the code that assigns a `_type` property. We need to ensure that we find any references to this property through the code and replace it with references to the `type` property on the `_source` object.

We should also probably clean up the existing indices removing the deprecated `_type` property throughout. The easiest way to do this is probably to re-index each index, thereby resetting the `_type` property to `_doc`. Thereafter, when we move to Elasticsearch version 8 (assuming that it is made available in AWS), this property will be removed.

Steps for testing restoration and removal of the type property are:

1. Run the restore script in the QA environment
1. Validate that the restore is correct
1. Remove the code adding types on publish and re-index the indices
1. Test the type property
1. Check that restored packages publish correctly
1. Check that older, but not restored content re-published correctly
1. Check the new content publishes correctly
1. Repeat in the beta environment

By doing each of these steps in isolation on the QA environment we should get a better sense of where to look if any issues arise. If everything goes smoothly, we can probably do the restoration and type removal one after the other on beta and test in combination.

**Note:** In our cloud environments the restore script should be run against the [Prisma management endpoint](https://v1.prisma.io/docs/1.34/prisma-server/management-api-foe1/) (similar to Prisma deploy and seed commands). While not the case for local development, the dev, beta, and prod environments all have a different endpoint for management.
