---
title: December 14, 2021
tags: []
date: 2021-12-14
excerpt: "Minutes from the December 14, 2021 GPA Lab developer's meeting."
---

## Off-Hours Work

**Description:** While the nature of IT often requires off-hours (ie. generally speaking, outside of Monday-Friday, 8:00-17:00) work, our currently contracting vehicles are not properly structured to handle these exigencies. As such, the team was asked to come up with an estimate of the number of off-hours required by the development team in a typical six-month period to better prepare for future contracts.

There are essentially three different types of off-hours work completed by the dev team:

1. [Incident Response](#incident-response)
1. [Scheduled Maintenance](#scheduled-maintenance)
1. [Production Releases](#production-releases)

### Incident Response

Incident response happens when a service failure, security breach, data loss event, or other incident causes serious adverse user impacts and requires immediate action to remediate. Incidents are not subject the the 9-5 schedule but require immediate attention (often from multiple persons) and hence can lead to significant off-works work. Evaluating the off-hours work while responding to incidents over the last six months, the team came up with the following time estimates:

| Incident                         | Work Off-Hours | Personnel |
| -------------------------------- | -------------- | --------- |
| June Security Incident           | 2 hrs.         | Marek     |
|                                  | 1 hr.          | Michael   |
| August Load Balancer Issue       | 5 hrs.         | Michael   |
| September Data Restore           | 2 hrs.         | Terri     |
|                                  | 3 hrs.         | Michael   |
|                                  | 1 hr.          | Temi      |
| September Elasticsearch Recovery | 8 hrs.         | Michael   |
|                                  | 8 hrs.         | Marek\*   |
|                                  | 8 hrs.         | Terri     |
| **Total**                        | 38 hrs.        | -         |

_\* while Marek was no longer a part of the contracting staff at this point his hours are included as they are indicative of time required from a developer_

As seen in the table above, incident response times can be extremely variable. Some can be resolved rather quickly, while others take a significant amount of time. It should be noted that in several cases incidents occurred during working hour but while critical personnel were on leave. Given how small our team is, it is not unheard of for a team member to contribute to incident response even if they are theoretically on leave.

All told, in a typical six month period the entire dev team can be expected to spend approximate 40 hours of time responding to incidents after hours.

### Scheduled Maintenance

From time to time we need to conduct major infrastructural upgrades. In order to assure data integrity, these upgrade require a complete content freeze and/or downtime. As a result, to limit the impact on users, they are generally conducted during off-hours.

There are three services that require particular care when upgrading and account for the bulk of these scheduled maintenance windows:

1. Kubernetes upgrade
1. AWS Relational Database Service (RDS) upgrade
1. Elasticsearch upgrade

Each service requires approximately 4 hours systems engineer work when upgrading. This includes running backups, deploying updates, re-configuring the application, and confirming data integrity. And additional 1 hour of quality assurance time is required at the end of the upgrade process to ensure proper integration.

Assuming each major service is upgraded twice a year, this yields 15 total hours of off-hours work every six months.

### Production Releases

Production releases are updates to the live application in use by end users. Typically releases are low impact and can be run during working hours. However, some releases require changes to the database, schema, or publishing flow. Such updates can have impacts on content editors and require a content freeze, which is disruptive to our users. Furthermore, the development team prefers running updates in off-hours in case something goes wrong during the upgrade and we have to restore from backups (which can lead to data loss if conducted during working hours).

At a minimum, a production release requires the presence of a developer, the systems engineer, and quality assurance. An update of moderate complexity requires approximately four hours to complete. This equates to 12 hours (four hours x three people) per release.

Assuming one production release per month, the team can expect to work 72 off-hours in a six month period if we conduct releases after hours.

### Conclusion

Evaluating each of the three categories of off-hours work, we come to the following estimates of off-hours work for a typical six-month period:

- Incident Response - 40 staff-hours
- Scheduled Maintenance - 15 staff-hours
- Production Releases - 72 staff-hours

This yields a **total of 127 staff-hours** of off-hours work in a given six-month period.

This total represents time spent working off-hours for the entire development team, however the load is not spread evenly. The preponderance of off-hours work falls to the system engineer, who accounts for approximately 50%, 80%, and 33% of off-hours incident response, scheduled maintenance, and production releases, respectively.
