---
title: July 22, 2021
tags: [Commons, Dependencies, Node, Jenkins]
date: 2021-07-22
---

## Commons Quick Hits

- Temi asked for more details on how to test ticket [CDP-2494](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2494) which disabled the publicly available GraphQL endpoint on the Commons site. Marek told here that to test the specific change she should visit the `/graphql` page where she would be greeted with the error `GET query missing`. However, the more nuanced and difficult test is to try uploading all content and navigating throughout to site to try to identify issues. These directions are extremely ambiguous because we are not entirely certain what parts of the application (if any) will be impacted by the change.
- Terri successfully updated the "China Relations" policy priority name to "China" in all environments (dev, beta, prod) per ticket [CDP-2482](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2482).

## Commons Dependencies

**Description:** With the playbooks release now complete, Marek raised the prospect of updating dependencies all dependencies for the three Commons repos as was agreed in a [previous meeting]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/06/17.html#2-dependabot-security-alerts' | relative_url }}). The team agreed that we should go forward with the dependency updates, focusing particularly on the server and API repos given the dependabot alerts in those repos.

Terri will add tickets to update the dependencies for all three repos ( client - [CDP-2498](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2498), server - [CDP-2499](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2499), API - [CDP-2500](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2500)) and we will take them on as appropriate.

The team also agreed to move forward with an overdue update to the underlying version of Node.js for all the applications. Below is the Node.js release schedule. Version 10, which we are currently using has already reached end of life and the current Active long term stable release is v14.

| Release | Status          | Initial Release | Active LTS Start | Maintenance LTS Start | End-of-life |
|---------|-----------------|-----------------|------------------|-----------------------|-------------|
| v12     | Maintenance LTS | 2019-04-23      | 2019-10-21       | 2020-11-30            | 2022-04-30  |
| v14     | Active LTS      | 2020-04-21      | 2020-10-27       | 2021-10-19            | 2023-04-30  |
| v16     | Current         | 2021-04-20      | 2021-10-26       | 2022-10-18            | 2024-04-30  |
| v17     | Pending         | 2021-10-19      | 2022-04-01       | 2022-06-01            |             |
| v18     | Pending         | 2022-04-19      | 2022-10-25       | 2023-10-18            | 2025-04-30  |

Given this schedule, version 14 should carry us through early 2023, but we may want to consider another upgrade to version 16 in Q1 of 2022.

![An Gantt chart showing what status each version of Node will be in between June 2021 and April 2023. The master branch is unstable at all times. Node 12 is currently in maintenance mode until April 2020. Node 14 is currently in active mode until October 2021 when it enters maintenance mode. Node 16 is in current mode until October 2021, then in active mode until October 2022 when it enters maintenance mode. Node 17 starts current mode October 2021 until April 2022, at which time it goes into maintenance mode until June 2022. Node 18 starts current mode April 2022 until October 2022 when it goes into Active mode.]({{ '/assets/2021/07/node-releases.png' | relative_url }})

**Decision:** The team will upgrade all application environments and our local setups to run on Node.js version 14.

## Jenkins Pipeline

The rest of the meeting Marek presented the work he completed on Jenkins pipelines and shared libraries. These changes included creating a shared Jenkins library with reusable patterns that allow us to more easily compose pipeline scripts. Additionally, he created a single function to return our standard Kubernetes project pipeline upon the provision of several variables. He showed how this sort of abstraction can help to simplify and improve our devops system.

The full project is stored in the `jenkins-pipeline` private repository in our AWS CodeCommit account. The streamlined pipeline is currently in use on the following build pipelines:

- Dev Commons server
- Dev Commons API
- Dev Talking Points Application (no active K8s cluster)

He has also prepared the development Commons client build as well as beta and prod server builds but has not enabled them as of yet.

His slide deck can be found [here]({{ '/presentations/jenkins-pipeline' | relative_url }}). Due to a hard stop at 11:00, Marek was unable to provide a code walk through or Q&A session to accompany the presentation. He will follow up with more detail in a future meeting when we have adequate time.