---
title: September 02, 2021
tags: [Lambda, SDPL, Commons]
date: 2021-09-02
---

## Configuring Lambda

**Description:** Edwin gave the team a readout of some of the challenges he encountered with the email notification Lambda and how he overcame them.

First, with Michael's help, he identified that the the connection issues he was experiencing had to do with the VPC settings. Rather than placing the Lambda in a public subnet, it should be in a private subnet with a NAT gateway. Per the [AWS documentation](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/internet-access-lambda-function/):

> If your Lambda function needs Internet access, do not attach it to a public subnet or to a private subnet without Internet access. Instead, attach it only to private subnets with Internet access through a NAT instance or an Amazon VPC NAT gateway.

Secondly, Edwin mentioned that he ran into some issues with the Lambda name. Apparently the function name must match the package name in the `package.json` file. This was not the case when Edwin set it up because he followed the camelCase convention for the function name and the kebab-case convention for the package name. One of these must be changed (probably the package name makes most sense).

## Software Development Life Cycle (SDPL) Meeting Readout

**Description:** Marek asked for a readout of the team's recent meeting with Farshad on software development. The main take away from the meeting was that Farshad is looking to improve the team's sprint planning process and that he supports a pause for resolving technical debt in the near future.

Improving our pre-development process will require us to fully flesh out requirements and write more robust user stories before development work is tasked out. One possibility is to hire a business analyst to determine all functionality and prepare test cases before development work begins.

Additional improvements could include:

- a formalized method for adding/recording requirements
- a process for getting stakeholders signoff before proceeding with work
- better documentation of what we're getting done

The technical debt efforts should focus on:

- stabilizing the system
- performance optimization
- caching content in Cloudflare

Terri will review our old [tech debt spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L9CKpNF3dXLunb7pcSBEBcWyuJivQdDQf077CLlaCmQ/edit#gid=6042965) to identify which tasking we want to pursue/prioritize.

Edwin advocated for including accessibility audits as part of the technical debt work. He has some of his previous work on the topic in a separate document, but suggested standardizing the reporting. One option would be to utilize a [Voluntary Product Accessibility Template](https://www.section508.gov/sell/vpat) (VPAT), which presents the results of an audit as a list of violations and recommended remediation steps.

## Vanity URLs & Commons TidBits

**Description:** Temi asked for some clarification regarding the the vanity URL tickets. In her testing Temi was able to create some playbooks with the same permalink. This was because while the titles were unique, when transformed into permalinks (i.e. lowercased, stripped of special characters, and hyphenated) they return the same string. The solution to this is to check the uniqueness not only of the input title, but also of the resultant permalinks.

Some other related decisions:

- We are no longer incrementing the permalink for playbooks with the same title. Rather we disallow the same title entirely.
- We should continue collapsing multiple, adjacent spaces into a single title.
- The validation error message that shows when a title is not unique should stay the same.

Michael will update Node to version 14 in the development environment on Monday and will push to this change to production with the next release.

We will move the next Commons release up from October 1 to September 17 (with a more limited scope).
