---
title: September 07, 2021
tags: [Commons, Sprint Planning, Dependencies]
date: 2021-09-07
---

## Commons Quick Hits

Temi reported that in testing [CDP-2582](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2582) (i.e. adding the countries dropdown to the playbook edit form) she was able to tag by country, but the tagged playbook was not showing up in search results when using the country filter. This is not a problem per se, since the ticket only pertains to adding the drop down, not surfacing content in the search results.

  - Marek - who completed CDP-2582 - was under the impression that the the country filter was working for playbooks. He tagged a playbook with a country and did not include that country in any of the playbook text. When filtering search results by country the playbook in question was included. However, Marek admits that his recollection may be incorrect an we should verify that the filter does in fact work.
  - Terri thinks country field still needs to be added to playbooks search criteria and that therefore the country filter will not work for playbooks.
  - In any case, we should add a new ticket to ensure that the countries filter is working for playbooks. ([CDP-2597](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2597))

Temi reported that she was unable to verify that [CDP-2579](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2579) and [CDP-2525](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2525) were working properly. Marek and Terri were unable to replicate the issues Temi was experiencing. After a screen share, the devs recommended that Temi do a hard refresh of her browser tab where she had Commons dev running. This corrected the issue. To prevent this issue in the future, Marek recommended that Temi do a hard refresh every time she starts an new test while Terri suggested restarting her computer periodically to clear all caches.

Given that we have been told we will have the opportunity to devote time to working on technical debt, Terri is planning to review the old [Opportunity Backlog](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L9CKpNF3dXLunb7pcSBEBcWyuJivQdDQf077CLlaCmQ/). She will update the items as necessary and may consolidate them into a new, more concise format. This should help us in planning/advocating for technical debt oriented tasks.

Marek asked Terri for a clarification on the [pull request](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/346) she submitted this morning. In the PR description she states the update "Changes policies layout mechanism from grid to flexbox to center rows". Terri confirmed that by this she means that in the case were the the number of grid items is not a multiple of three, the elements (i.e. columns) in the final row should be centered rather than left aligned.

## Changes to the Sprint Board

The team agreed that it would be beneficial to track the movement of tickets through the various environments testing environments. However, the way we have done this in the past (i.e. in a separate board) is a bit confusing. It results in tickets falling out of view (out of sight out of mind) and it would be preferable to have all the tickets on one board.

The current QA column should be expanded into three columns:

  - QA - Dev
  - QA - Beta
  - QA - Prod

Only once a ticket completes QA on the production environment will it be added to the "Done" column. We may have to determine which column we use for reporting completed tasks/calculating velocity if moving tickets to done is pushed out further.

**Next Steps:** Temi will discuss altering the Sprint board to add the new columns with Anna.

## Dependency Updates

We will update the Commons dependencies following the rubric outlined during the [July 17th](https://iip-design.github.io/lab-tools/dev_meetings/2021/06/17.html#2-dependabot-security-alerts) dev meeting. Specifically:

> We will address dependency updates in the short period between a release and the start of work on the next feature. All resolvable updates recommended by Dependabot or npm audit will be accepted. Furthermore, non-security patch and minor updates will be rolled in. Major version updates will be evaluated and included at the team’s discretion.

Temi will create tickets for each component of Commons (i.e. client, server, API) and assign them as follows:

 - Client - Terri [CDP-2595](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2595)
 - Server - Marek [CDP-2594](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2594)
 - API - Edwin [CDP-2593](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2593)

Given that dependency updates tend to be much more burdensome on the client app, we will rotate who updates each app after every release.

We will regroup on this topic during the next Tuesday dev meeting (Sept. 14). This should give each developer enough time to test the patch/minor updates and evaluate the impact of major version updates. During the meeting, we can discuss potential concerns with any major version updates and whether or not we want to proceed with them.

In addition to the package updates, Michael will upgrade Node to version 14.x for all components of Commons ([CDP-2596](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2596)). Concurrent with this upgrade, we should update the specified [Node engine](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/configuring-npm/package-json#engines) in the `package.json` from 10 to 14. Terri will do as part of the client updates.