---
title: September 16, 2021
tags: [Deployment Checklist, Commons]
date: 2021-09-16
---

## Commons Prod Deployment Checklist

**Update Window:** Friday September 16, 14:00 - 18:00

**Personnel:** Terri, Michael, Temi, Marek, Edwin

**Order of Operation:**

1. Update changelogs for client, server, and API
1. Tag the releases:
  - API: patch -> 5.4.1
  - Client: minor -> 5.8.0
  - Server: minor -> 5.8.0
1. Take snapshots of all data
1. Run client, server, and API code builds via Jenkins
1. Run Prisma deploy Jenkins job
1. Run Prisma seed Jenkins job
1. Taxonomy bulk upload (must first map localhost to API IP address)
1. Update tagging for the current Afghanistan playbook:
  - Tag with the "Current Topics" category
  - Tag with the "Afghanistan" country tag
  - Remove the "Afghanistan" policy priority tag
  - Publish changes
1. [Remove "Alliances and Partnerships" and "Afghanistan" policy priorities](#gql-policy) via GraphQL
1. ~~Update the `ui.json` file in the static assets to remove the "Alliances and Partnerships" Department priority section~~ - Completed 09/16 to update dev

**Code Snippets:**

<details id="gql-policy"><summary>GraphQL Delete policies Operations</summary>
  <pre><code class="language-graphql hljs">
query POLICIES {
  policyPriorities {
    id
    name
    theme
  }
}

mutation DELETE_AFGHANISTAN_POLICY {
  deletePolicyPriority(
    where: { id: "cksouaajfeeq0074414dpzdze" }
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}

mutation DELETE_ALLIANCES_POLICY {
  deletePolicyPriority(
    where: { id: "ckr802nqm9ors0744h5mhi91y" }
  ) {
    id
    name
  }
}
  </code></pre>
</details>

## Categories Search Filter

**Description:** After going over the deployment checklist we had a group session to troubleshoot and resolve some issues Temi identified on dev. Namely:

  1. GraphQL query requests resulted in a number of access errors (403 Forbidden) logged to the console
  1. The autosave functionality on the Playbook edit screen was acting up. Any inputs into a text or textarea input resulted in jittering and repeated re-rendering.
  1. The three new categories (Current Topics, Secretary Travel, Holiday & Events) were not appearing in the search filter dropdown even when a playbook was tagged with one of these

Marek and Terri confirmed that they were also seeing behaviors #2 and #3 on their local environments.

### 403 Errors

Yesterday (Sept. 15), Michael tested enabling additional Cloudflare security rules on the `/graphql` endpoint in the dev environment. These rules had previously been disabled because they interfered with the operation of the platform. Given that we have disabled the `/graphql` endpoint, Michael thought it might be time to revisit this decision. However, it seems that they still interfere with the site.

After disabling them again, the errors ceased. We should revisit soon to identify what exactly in the rules is problematic.

### Autosave Jittering

Looking at the recently deployed code, it was clear that the jittering was caused by the addition of the `enableReinitialize` prop to the `Fromik` element within the `PlaybookDetailsFormContainer` component ([1d6b5e7](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/commit/1d6b5e71c9c4bfc47f22366aeb806b416b821536)).

This change was made to allow for re-initialization of the playbook details form in that case that a user clicks the "edit the existing Playbook" (i.e. unique title check) link from another existing playbook. In order maintain re-initialization for this one particular case, we may want to conditionally set the `enableReinitialize` prop. We have done something similar with a `useEffect` hook in the `PackageDetailsFormContainer` [component](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/blob/develop/components/admin/PackageEdit/PackageDetailsFormContainer/PackageDetailsFormContainer.js#L26) as such:

```jsx
useEffect( () => {
  if ( pkg?.documents && pkg.documents.length !== docNumber ) {
    setReinitialize( true );
    setDocNumber( pkg.documents.length );
  } else {
    setReinitialize( false );
  }
}, [pkg] );
```

### Missing Categories

Inspecting the response to the categories query returned from the API, Marek noticed that he was only returning 15 results (rather than the expected 18). However, getting a count of categories directly from Elasticsearch returned the expected 18 results.

Looking closer at the categories query, and results must meet the following two conditions: `type: term AND primary: true`. Comparing two categories (one old, one new) pulled directly from Elasticsearch, it was clear that the new ones were missing the `type` property in the `_source` body.

```json
{
  "hits" : [
    {
      "_index" : "taxonomy_20210708",
      "_type" : "term",
      "_id" : "tzlZzHsBJwVTT3xSWA4w",
      "_score" : 4.0314107,
      "_source" : {                       <--
        "primary" : true,                 <--
        "parents" : [ ],                  <--
        "synonymMapping" : [ ],           <-- No type here
        "language" : {                    <--
          "en" : "secretary travel"       <--
        }                                 <--
      }
    },
    {
      "_index" : "taxonomy_20210708",
      "_type" : "term",
      "_id" : "Q9rkh3oBwS1U2RiXtecO",
      "_score" : 2.7966413,
      "_source" : {
        "synonymMapping" : [ ],
        "language" : {
          "en" : "travel to the u.s. "
        },
        "type" : "term",                  <-- Type
        "primary" : false,
        "parents" : [
          "Jdrkh3oBwS1U2RiXs-f5",
          "Sdrkh3oBwS1U2RiXtecm"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
The source of the problem was tracked to the `createUpdateTerm` function in the [taxonomy controller](https://github.com/IIP-Design/cdp-public-api/blob/develop/src/api/resources/taxonomy/controller.js#L77). When a new term (i.e. category or tag) is created the body of the item does not include the type. Adding the type to the body, deleting the three new categories, and rerunning the bulk taxonomy upload corrected the issue.

<details id="createUpdateTerm"><summary>Changes to `createUpdateTerm` function</summary>
  <pre><code class="language-js hljs">
const createUpdateTerm = async ( name, syns, language, isParent, existingTerm ) => {
  console.log( 'createUpdateTerm', name, syns, language, isParent, existingTerm );
  let term = existingTerm;

  // If no existingTerm provided, search ES
  if ( !term ) term = await controllers.findDocByTerm( model, name );
  // If still no term, then create one
  if ( !term ) {
    const body = {
      primary: isParent,
      parents: isParent ? [] : [parent._id],
      synonymMapping: syns,
      language,
      type: 'term', // <--- ADDED THIS
    };
  }

  // Some more code...

  return term;
};
  </code></pre>
</details>

It is a little unclear how the `type` property appeared on the existing categories if it was not assigned during the bulk upload. Marek speculated that it was added during the migration from Elasticsearch 6.x to 7.x but could point to a specific mechanism by which this would have happened.