---
title: September 23, 2021
tags: [Slack, GitHub Action]
date: 2021-09-23
---

## Slack Notifications

Marek followed up with the Alex from R/PPR about fixing the GitHub webhook in that stopped working [last month]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/08/31.html#slack-notifications' | relative_url }}). The webhook was set up as a private integration so Alex could neither determine why it stopped working nor reactivate it.

However, we were able to come to a satisfactory solution as Alex replaced the previous incoming webhook integration with the official [GitHub Slack app](https://slack.github.com/). In many ways, this new integration is preferable to the older webhook.

The data returned by the Slack app is comparable to what was returned from the webhook, but it is more structured and hence looks a bit cleaner in the feed.

_Previous Notification Message_

![Slack message from github indicating content-commons-client:master has 4 new commits by mrewers and one other. This is followed by a list of four commit hashes with their description and author. A second sections shows content-commons-client new tag v5.6.1 was pushed by mrewers. The v5.6.1 text is linked.]({{ '/assets/2021/09/slack-notification-old.png' | relative_url }})

_New Notification Message_

![Slack message from GitHub indicating two new commits pushed to CDP-2594 by mrewers. This is followed by a list of two commit hashes with their description. A second section shows branch created by mrewers. The branch name, CDP-2594, is shown and linked to the branch in GitHub. A third section shows pull request opened by mrewers. It lists the pull request number, title, a truncated description, and the assigned reviewers. Each section has small footer text showing the GitHub logo and the repository name, in this case IIP-Design/content-commons-server. The footer for the third section also shows the date on which the pull request was opened.]({{ '/assets/2021/09/slack-notification-new.png' | relative_url }})

Rather than adding the webhook to every repo, we can now [subscribe](https://github.com/integrations/slack#subscribing-and-unsubscribing) to repos from with a Slack channel using the command `/github subscribe <owner>/<repo>`. By default, subscribing to a repo reports the following info:

- issues - Opened or closed issues
- pulls - New or merged pull requests, as well as draft pull requests marked "Ready for Review"
- commits - New commits on the default branch (usually master)
- releases - Published releases
- deployments - Deployment review notifications and Deployment status updates.

We also suggest running `/github subscribe <owner>/<repo> commits:* branches` to receive notifications about commits to non-default branches and the creation/deletion of branches. 

Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the old webhook integration's [info page](https://slack.com/apps/A0F7XDUAZ-incoming-webhooks?tab=more_info) itself recommends migrating to the newer Slack app-type integration:

> Please note, this is a legacy custom integration - an outdated way for teams to integrate with Slack. These integrations lack newer features and they will be deprecated and possibly removed in the future. We do not recommend their use. Instead, we suggest that you check out their replacement: Slack apps.

**Note:** We should probably clean up all the GitHub repos removing the existing webhook while we still remember what it is.

## Static Assets GitHub Action

Marek created a [GitHub action](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) in the [iip-static-assets repo](https://github.com/IIP-Design/iip-static-assets/blob/main/.github/workflows/sync-s3.yml), which automatically syncs the repo's files to S3 whenever somebody push changes to the `main` branch. In order to authenticate to the AWS account he used the using the [configure-aws-credentials action](https://github.com/aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials).

### AWS Permissions

Within AWS IAM, Marek created a `github-actions` programmatic user. He assigned this user the newly created `sts-assume-ci-roles` policy. The sole purpose of this policy is to allow a user to temporarily assume one of a list of granted roles. Currently, to only allowed role is `s3-manage-static-assets`. This role currently grants the user full S3 access, but we can narrow that down to only the bucket in question.

As a further security measure, the `s3-manage-static-assets` role's trust relationship requires the `github-actions` user to provide a valid external id value before it can assume the role.

### GitHub Secrets

All sensitive values used by the GitHub action are stored as [GitHub secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets).

The key-secret pair associated with the the `github-actions` user are stored as the organization-level secrets `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`. These credentials can then be provided on an as-needed basis to any of the org's repos. As mentioned above, rather than giving the `github-actions` user direct permissions to AWS services, we only provide it the ability to assume the required roles (assuming it provides valid keys and external id). This allows us to alter allowed roles/permissions without changing the associated user or creating a new user for every repo. Furthermore, his facilitates key rotation (and should it be needed invalidation) as it only has to happen in one place rather than within multiple repo settings.

In addition to the organization-level secrets, added the following repo-level secrets:
  - `AWS_ROLE_TO_ASSUME` - the ARN of the role that the `github-actions` need to assume to complete the action
  - `AWS_ROLE_EXTERNAL_ID` - the external ID value used to validate the the 
  - `AWS_BUCKET_NAME` - the bucket name where the files should be synced
  - `AWS_REGION` - the AWS region

The entire authentication flow can be visualized as follows:

![Demonstrates the interaction between two domains - GitHub and AWS. The GitHub domain has two parts the organization (IIP-Design) and the repo (iip-static-assets). The organization contains an access id and an access key. Together these secrets are used to authenticate as the user github-actions in the AWS domain. This user has the policy sts-assume-ci-roles attached to it. This policy, in turn allows the user to assume the s3-manage-static-assets role. The GitHub repo identifies that it wants to assume the s3-manage-static-assets role and provided the external id required by the role's trust policy. With the role assumed, the user is temporarily provided the S3 full access policy, which grants access to the iip-static-assets bucket.]({{ '/assets/2021/09/github-assume-role.svg' | relative_url }} "Infographic demonstrating the role based authentication flow")
