---
title: September 28, 2021
tags: [Commons, Elasticsearch, Okta, ESLint]
date: 2021-09-28
---

## Elasticsearch Degraded Service

**Description:** Yesterday (Sept. 27), the Commons API experienced degraded performance resulting in intermittent failures for Commons users. The failures were caused by a significant spike in CPU utilization by the Elasticsearch cluster rendering it unstable. Attempts to recover the cluster by restarting the nodes was unsuccessful and efforts to upgrade the cluster was hampered by an inability to run timely backups. The dev team upgraded cluster the at night when the chance of user impact was the lowest and full service was restored.

While we are not certain what caused the CPU spike, we believe that the trigger may have been an OpenSearch system issue. We were notified of the system issue by AWS support:

> Please note that between 6:30 PM PDT, September 26 and 2:45 PM PDT, September 27 we experienced increased errors and latencies for some Amazon OpenSearch Service domains in the US-EAST-1 Region.

Our best guess is that this latency increased the load on the cluster, causing the application to run out of memory which in turn caused the [JVM to kill critical processes](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/handling-errors.html#troubleshooting-cluster-block). 

After consulting with AWS support, Michael upgraded the [EC2 instance type](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/) used by the Elasticsearch cluster from T2 to M6g. He also added two additional data nodes to the cluster (for a total of four).

A second problem surfaced when we populated the upgraded Elasticsearch domain (`cdp-prod-2021-09-27`) with indices from a backup of our previous Elasticsearch instance. When we did this, reading from the indices worked fine, however publishing new content (videos and documents) failed. In the logs we found that there was an issue with the mapping of Elasticsearch doc types:

```txt
{
  type: illegal_argument_exception,
  reason: Rejecting mapping update to [documents_20200521] as the final mapping would have more than 1 type: [_doc, document]
}
```

To resolve the issue, we upgraded the original `cdp-prod` domain to match the new `cdp-prod-2021-09-27` specs and reconnected it to the production API. We could safely perform this update since the domain was no longer connect to the API so downtime was no longer a concern.

**Next Steps:** We believe problem experienced on the `cdp-prod-2021-09-27` domain pertains to the index or cluster settings. We will need to further investigate how to correct it so that we can safely restore from backups in the future. Michael will connect the `cdp-prod-2021-09-27` domain to the beta environment so that we can troubleshoot the settings and correct the issue for the future ([CDP-2627](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2627)).

## Login From Okta

**Description:** Users logging in to Commons from the Okta dashboard have reported that they are unable to authenticate properly.

When users log in via the Okta dashboard they are directed to the login screen where they just see a spinning loader. The console records an 400 error with the message `cookie is too large`.

**Next Steps:** Michael and Terri will try to identify the cause of the problem ([CDP-2618](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2618)).

## ESLint Updates

Marek updated the Lab ESLint configuration. The changes were mostly limited to dependency updates. There were several new rules and rule options added in the newer versions of the `eslint-plugin-react`. Marek added them in the following fashion:

1) [react/prefer-exact-props](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react/blob/master/docs/rules/prefer-exact-props.md) - New rule (introduced in v7.25.0), set to off. Only useful if using the [prop-types-exact](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types-exact) package to enforce stricter typing of props.

<hr />

2) [react/jsx-no-useless-fragment](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react/blob/master/docs/rules/jsx-no-useless-fragment.md#allowexpressions) - Set the `allowExpressions` property to `false` to disallow fragments in single line expressions.

```jsx
const MyComponent = ( {foo} ) => <Fragment>{foo}</Fragment> // ✅ Use Fragment component;
const MyComponent = ( {foo} ) => <>{foo}</>; // ❌ Do not use Fragment shorthand
```

<hr />

3) [react/jsx-pascal-case](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react/blob/master/docs/rules/jsx-pascal-case.md#allowleadingunderscore) - Set the `allowLeadingUnderscore` property to `false` to prevent naming of components with underscores.

```jsx
const _DisallowedName = ( {foo} ) => <div bar={foo} />; // ❌ Do not start name with underscore
const AllowedName = ( {foo} ) => <div bar={foo} />; // ✅ No underscore in name
```

<hr />

4) [react/jsx-no-target-blank](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react/blob/master/docs/rules/jsx-no-target-blank.md#links--forms) - Set the `forms` and `links` properties to `true` to prevent the use of `target="_blank"`.

```jsx
const MyComponent = () => <form target="_blank" action="http://example.org/"></form>; // ❌
const MyComponent = () => <a target='_blank' href="http://example.org/">text</a>; // ❌
```

<hr />

5) [react/no-namespace](https://github.com/yannickcr/eslint-plugin-react/blob/master/docs/rules/no-namespace.md) - New rule (introduced in v7.26.0), set to error. Disallows the namespacing of components. This is not allowed in in React and not something we would use. 

```jsx
<ns:MyComponent /> // ❌
<Ns:MyComponent /> // ❌
<MyComponent />; // ✅
```

Marek reviewed these setting with Edwin and Terri, who concurred with the decisions. Shortly after the meeting, Marek released the changes as version [1.5.0](https://github.com/IIP-Design/eslint-config/releases/tag/v1.5.0). Dependent repos should be updated according when convenient.