---
title: July 05, 2022
tags: [Commons, Deployment Checklist, Jenkins, Digital Archive]
date: 2022-07-05
excerpt: "Minutes from the July 05, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we write a deployment checklist."
---

## Deployment Checklist

The team has completed development and testing of the user and team management dashboard in Publisher. This new feature will allow site admins to easily manage (add, edit, delete) users and teams.

One thing of particular note for this deployment is that it will be the first in which we are implementing the new Prisma 3 migration deploys in a production environment. Michael has already set up a Jenkins build to do this, but we should take particular care to ensure that everything goes smoothly with this process.

**Update Window:** Friday July 8, 4:00 PM

**Personnel:** Michael, Terri, Ahmad, Marek

**Content Freeze:** Four hours (4:00 PM - 8:00 PM)

**Order of Operation:**

1. Update changelogs for API, client, and server
1. Tag the releases
   - API: patch -> 6.1.3
   - Client: minor -> 5.14.0
   - Server: major -> 7.0.0
1. Take snapshots for backup ( Prisma DB, Elasticsearch )
1. Run the builds via Jenkins:
   - Execute server build
   - Execute Prisma deploy build
   - Execute API build
   - Execute Client build
1. Write the release notes.
1. Roll tagged releases into develop

## Vulnerable Jenkins Plugins

**Description:** Over the weekend Marek saw [reports](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/jenkins-discloses-dozens-of-zero-day-bugs-in-multiple-plugins/) that the Jenkins security team disclosed 34 security vulnerabilities impacting a large number of Jenkins plugins.

Most of the high severity vulnerabilities require user interaction to be exploited, which is somewhat mitigated by placing the Jenkins instance behind Cognito authentication. Even more encouraging is that Michael checked the list of plugins in the article and found that we do not seem to be using any of them.

Regardless, our Jenkins instance is a bit of a mess. Michael to start cleaning it up by removing unused plugins although he has to proceed with caution as some are dependencies of plugins that are in use. Michael will also continue to evaluate the plugins in use and update those that are vulnerable.

## IIP Digital Archive

**Description:** Earlier today, Elizabeth from Design and Editorial reached out asking about the authentication screen sitting in front of the IIP Digital Archive site. She needs access to the page but does not know her credentials.

Marek found that she never set up her credentials when we placed the site behind Cognito login back in March. Michael suggested that it is easier to delete her current pending account and re-add her as a user to the Cognito pool than to resend the existing account creation notice.

**Next Steps:** Michael will delete Elizabeth's pending account creation and send her a new one.
