---
title: July 07, 2022
tags: [Commons, Testing, Deployment]
date: 2022-07-07
excerpt: "Minutes from the July 07, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which Friday's deployment is moved to next week."
---

## Commons Regression Testing

Ahmad discovered a pair of problems while completing his full regression test ahead of Friday's planned user management Commons deployment. Both of these problems appear in the dev and beta, but not in production, which implies that they were introduced during the course of user management

**First Error:** The title field on the edit playbook screen is broken. When creating or editing a playbook as a user in the Global Campaign Strategy Unit, anything entered in the title field fails validation with the error message `title is invalid`. It is not immediately clear what the cause of this problem is, but the team suspects that is has to do with the unique title constraint on playbooks. This issue is described in [CDP-3017](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3017) and assigned to Terri.

Marek wondered why this issue wasn't caught by our unit tests given that string input validation should be trivial to test.

**Second Error:** On the final review screen of the create/edit video user flow, the page is failing to load in the caption files and additional files sections. Instead, that portion of the page shows a loading error. This error has not been found in production, but it is present in both beta and dev. Looking in the network tab on the page, we see that the following GraphQL error message, originating from the `VideoProjectReviewSupportFiles` query, is being returned from the call to the server:

```txt
message: "Unknown arg `mode` in select.supportFiles.where.OR.0.filename.not.mode for type NestedStringNullableFilter. Did you mean `lte`?\nUnknown arg `mode` in select.supportFiles.where.OR.1.filetype.not.mode for type NestedStringNullableFilter. Did you mean `lte`?\n"
```

This issue is described in [CDP-3016](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3016) and assigned to Edwin.

**Next Steps:** None of the code for playbooks or video has been edited since the migration to Prisma 3. As such this seems to be a side effect of some changes made to accommodate the user management feature. There is insufficient time to remediate these issues before tomorrow afternoon. Therefore, the team recommends postponing the release of the new user management features until next week.
