---
title: July 12, 2022
tags: [Commons, AWS, SQS, Deployment]
date: 2022-07-12
excerpt: "Minutes from the July 12, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we find out that Pierce broke all the emails."
---

## AWS Issues

The team, led by Michael, spent the bulk of the meeting discussing several issues related to our AWS account.

### Organization Migration

On Friday (July 8) Michael has received word from Nic from DLT (our AWS provider) that the team's AWS account needs to be migrated to a new organization. They claim that this is a quick change that should have no impact on our services and result in no downtime, but that the root account holder must be present. Michael will reach back out to Nic and schedule a meeting for Wednesday or Thursday to complete the process.

Marek expressed some skepticism that there would be no downtime as a result of the migration. Michael believes that the only chance of downtime would be if DLT applied some sort of new policy to the account that limits what services we can use.

**_Update (07/13/2022):_** Michael and Marek met with DLT and successfully completed the migration process. It went smoothly and without any issues. DLT confirmed that they do not impose any policies on the account with the exception of block support requests directly to AWS. Rather all support requests should be routed through DLT. While something of an inconvenience, this is a condition of our contract and a key factor in the pricing of the account. We do have to repeat the process with the gpa-lab2 sub-account. Nic opened a ticket to this effect and will reach back out when they are ready to proceed with the second migration.

## Email Notification Soft Bounces

Michael notified the team that since July 5 he has been seeing a number of errors in CloudWatch related to the playbook notification emails. The alerts pertain to `gpalab-ses-soft-bounces` so it is clear that some Commons notification emails are bouncing. However, the alerts have a state of `insufficient data` so Michael is unable to identify what is causing them.

Edwin theorized that the recipient's email is valid, but that their inbox may be full. He believed that this was the case because emailing a non-existent email address would result in a hard bounce. The team conducted a live troubleshooting session to try to identify the cause of the errors. The team logged into the Content Commons "no reply" email account to see what sort of automatic replies were in that inbox. We then cross referenced these auto-replies with messages in the soft bounce queue, which we retrieved these queue items using the following steps:

1. Log into the AWS account and go to SQS service
1. Therein, find the queue for soft bounces (`gpalab-ses-soft-bounces-queue.fifo`) and click it to see more information
1. Within this queue, click the `Send and receive messages` button in the top right corner of the page
1. Click the `Poll for messages` button at the bottom of the resulting page

It should be noted that items only remain in SQS for two weeks (?) before being deleted.

This analysis led us to concluded that the soft bounce were caused primarily by user's out of office messages. Particularly troublesome was Pierce's old america.gov email, which was receiving several playbook notifications and responding to them with a message that his email had changed.

In a related matter, the team found some (presumably hard) bounces from fake emails that Ahmad used while testing the user creation functionality. When testing user creation a new Commons user in dev and beta, he made up emails, but the account confirmation email was still sent to this fake account. We use the same SES across all our environments so we should be cognizant that testing in dev and beta can adversely impact our production account.

These soft bounces (at the levels that we are experiencing them) are more of an annoyance than a real concern. However, Marek pointed out that if these email issues persist - particularly hard bounces - the team's SES account may be flagged as sending spam emails and blacklisted. We should endeavor to avoid this by testing with real emails and addressing bounces as they happen.

**Next Steps:** Michael cleared the alarms by purging the soft bounce queue. He will continue to monitor CloudWatch in case we see a recurrence. We will resolve the issue with Pierce's old account by setting it to inactive as soon as user management is deployed later today. The team may also look into the feasibility of disabling emails in beta and dev, although this may be a heavy lift.

## Commons Deployment

**Description:** The deployment originally scheduled for for last Friday, July 8 (see [previous meeting notes]({{ 'dev_meetings/2022/07/05' | relative_url }})) has been re-scheduled for today at 4:00 pm. The team divvied up responsibility for the preparatory tasks, specifically updating the changelogs and tagging each repo for release. The breakdown is as such:

- Marek: Server - major release
- Edwin: Client - minor release
- Terri: API - patch release
