---
title: April 07, 2022
tags: [Commons, Deployment Checklist, AmGov Envvars]
date: 2022-04-07
excerpt: "Minutes from the April 07, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we write a deployment checklist and discuss environmental variables."
---

## Deployment Checklist

**Update Window:** Monday April 11, 4:00 PM

**Personnel:** Marek, Michael, Terri, Temi

**Content Freeze:** Two hours (4:00 PM - 6:00 PM)

**Changes to Include:**

- Client - [Updating feedback form link](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/commit/27f6dd84b65a917fd2518a23a39ba0f4e79aaa34) - Hotfix merged into `master`.
- API - [Include "source" property in controller](https://github.com/IIP-Design/cdp-public-api/commit/45cdd220aea7a5455b81125cb469b74fc847b4ee) - On `develop`, merge into `master`.
- Server - [Remove the HR Bureau](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/117/commits/7d9fe0995efc86dece566d3667f0b9c67e4c39a4) and [add the CDP Bureau](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/117/commits/0bf28ec3f34467899fb8596bdcd3f7b56cb408c6) - On CDP-2879, these two commits need to be cherry-picked over to `master` run the seed.
- Server - [HR Bureau migration script](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/117) - On `develop`, set up a separate Jenkins job to run the script from the `develop` branch.

**Order of Operation:**

1. Update changelogs for API, client, and server
1. Tag the releases
   - API: patch -> 6.1.2
   - Client: patch -> 5.13.4
   - Server: patch -> 5.11.2
1. Take snapshots for backup (Prisma DB, Elasticsearch)
1. Run the builds via Jenkins:
   - Execute the client build
   - Execute the API build
   - Execute `prisma seed` via Jenkins
   - Execute the HR Bureau migration script via Jenkins
1. Roll client hotfix back into master
1. Update the release notes

## Google API Keys

**Description:** Michael raised a concern about the Google-originated API keys that we use in Commons. These keys were created using the `noreply@america.gov` email, and we are concerned that they may cease to work after the `america.gov` GSuite domain is completely deprecated. The keys in question are the following on the client:

```bash
NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID= # Google login - no longer used
NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_API_KEY= # Language detection - not used
NEXT_PUBLIC_YOUTUBE_API_KEY= # Validate YouTube URLS
```

The variable `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and it's equivalent on the server `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` were used in the course of authenticating users with Google login. This functionality is no longer present in the application so it should be safe to remove the variables.

The variable `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_API_KEY` was briefly used to detect the user's browser language and set the search language appropriately. This feature is not currently enabled in the application so it should be safe to remove the variable.

The `NEXT_PUBLIC_YOUTUBE_API_KEY` is used to confirm the existence of YouTube URLs. This functionality resides in the `checkForValidYouTube` function on line 47 of `components/Video/utils`:

```js
export const checkForValidYouTube = async (ytid) => {
  if (config.YOUTUBE_API_URL && process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_YOUTUBE_API_KEY) {
    const url = `${config.YOUTUBE_API_URL}?part=id&id=${ytid}&key=${process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_YOUTUBE_API_KEY}`;

    try {
      const res = await axios.get(url);

      if (res.data && res.data.pageInfo && res.data.pageInfo.totalResults > 0) return res;
    } catch (err) {
      return Promise.resolve(null);
    }
  }

  return Promise.resolve(null);
};
```

This functionality is in use and removing it would negatively impact users.

**Assessment:** Removing the YouTube API key will almost certainly have an adverse impact on the video portion of Commons and we should look for alternative means of sourcing this key. On the other hand the `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_GOOGLE_API_KEY` environmental variables are unused and we should be able to remove them without any impact.

**Next Steps:** Michael will remove the listed envvars on beta so that we can observe what how this would impact the application. We should explore options for getting a GoogleCloud account to manage these API keys or reach out to the. As a worst case scenario, we can create a private Google account to get the needed YouTube API key as a temporary measure.
