---
title: April 19, 2022
tags: [Commons]
date: 2022-04-19
excerpt: "Minutes from the April 19, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we welcome Edwin back."
---

## Recap of Recent Events

**Description:** Edwin rejoined the team this week after an extending period away. As such we spent the bulk of the meeting catching him up on what has transpired with the team since he was last here on March 4th.

**Commons Deployments:**

- April 11, 2022 - Switch feedback form link to fan.gov, support the `_source` property in searches, add the Cyberspace and Digital Policy Bureau to the bureaus list, and script to remove the Human Resources Bureau (and re-tag content as GTM)
- April 01, 2022 - Fix bug with file dropdown on press guidance dashboard
- March 23, 2022 - Add Ukrainian as a language option

**Commons Development:**

- User management dashboard development has stalled as other tasks cropped up
- Terri is getting close to wrapping up the migration to Prisma 3
- Marek put in a [PR](https://github.com/IIP-Design/cdp-public-api/pull/132) to update all the API dependencies on Friday (April 15)

**Other Development Efforts:**

- The content and courses WordPress sites have been updated to support login with Okta (as opposed to Google OAuth). These changes have been deployed to content prod, but we are delaying deployment to courses until they have finished adding the latest set of courses.
- The legacy IIP Digital Archive site has been refreshed a bit and switched over to the Okta login. We also added Google Analytics to the page so that we can confirm our suspicion that nobody is visiting the site.

**Tools:**

- Marek briefly described the [recent changes to the GPA Lab ESLint config]({{ '/studies/2022/03/lint-config' | relative_url }}) that were released a v1.6.0 of the config. After using the config for a few days, Marek and Terri found one of the new rules (disallowing the shadowing of built-in global variables) to be a bit too onerous. As such Marek made a small tweak to the config which he published today (April 19) as v1.6.1.
- Similarly, Marek put together a reusable [PHP coding standards library](https://github.com/IIP-Design/php-coding-standards) to be used on our PHP projects.

**Events:**

- The onboarding of new staff has proceeded including:
  - Mike - Product manager for Content Commons.
  - Anna - Business analyst, with a design and development background currently taking over the design efforts for Commons from BreAnn.
  - Ahmad - New quality assurance tester. Getting brought up to speed by Temi.
  - Tolu - Systems engineer to provide expertise and consultation on our tech stack.
  - Peggy - Helping facilitate the Lab strategic planning discussions.
- The story telling project via [Shorthand](https://shorthand.com/) was approved and is moving towards release. There will be two stories launched - one on Ukraine and one (the original) on green jobs.
- There was a relatively minor security vulnerability reported towards the end of March. Marek described the outlines of the issue and pointed to the full [incident report]({{ '/postmortems/2022/03/23' | relative_url }}) for a more detailed description.

## Tech Debt Tickets

**Description:** At the beginning of this sprint, Mike ask Terri, Temi, and Marek to review all the technical debt tickets in the backlog. The purpose of this review is to clarify and right-size the tasks. Each ticket should contain a meaningful description and acceptance criteria. We should estimate story points for each one and if too big to complete in a single sprint, break into smaller tasks.

Temi was uncertain how she should be testing some of these tickets. For example [CDP-2844](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2844), which consists of migrating video content from the courses site to publisher. It is unclear how one would write a test script for that. Acceptance criteria for this task, as well as many of the other infrastructural changes, is more of a regression testing and ensuring that "things don't break". This is easy to say, but difficult to document a process for ensuring that this is the case.

Temi's secondary concern was regarding how long these tech debt tickets would take. If some are large lifts, it will push our timeline back for any new features/other work that is to be done. Marek responded that just because we describe and estimate a ticket doesn't mean we have to accept it into a given sprint. We can prioritize the tickets that we need to address and mark others as nice to haves that we'll address when we have the opportunity. Temi feels that we should involve Mike in this conversation to get some clarity as to how he wants us to approach this categorization effort.
