---
title: October 05, 2021
tags: [Notifications, Schema]
date: 2021-10-05
---

## Notification Data Model

**Description:** The dev team met to discuss the notional data structure pertaining to email notifications. Within the schema we will need a many-to-many relationship in order to track:

1. Which notifications a given user is subscribed to, and
1. Which users are subscribed to a given notification

Terri suggested a new `UserNotification` type. This type would contain four key components:

1. An `action`, which would be the circumstance under which a notification is sent (creation, modification, deletion). This could be an enum or a string, but the team seemed to lean towards enumerating all the possible options.
1. A notification `type`, which identifies what sort of notification should go out (based on content, team, region, system, etc). The team is still undecided on how types should be handled since there will be other non-content type types. We could use a generic string to provide the greatest degree of flexibility, but we should consider other options.
1. An `itemId` which can be used to track a particular piece of content in the system. It could also refer to a particular category, policy priority, or other element with a fixed identifier. Not every notification will contain an item id. For example, notifications about the creation of new playbooks would have no use for this property as it is not tracking a particular element.
1. A list of `users` who should receive the notification.

**Keeping Track of Failed Notifications:**

- How to handle email statuses (i.e. was the last message successfully sent or did it result in a bounce) is a bit of an open question. We could use a status enum (`ACTIVE`, `INACTIVE`) or simply a boolean indicating whether the email is active.
- We also felt it may be useful to keep track of how often a given notification is marked as spam. We could add a property that increments with each instance of a complaint. This may help the team identify problematic patterns in the notifications that would harm our SES reputability score.

Terri wondered whether we should we track when a user is added to a notification list (e.g. `createdAt`, `updatedAt`). The general consensus seemed to be that this would be a wise addition. Prisma can provide this functionality basically for free out and back-filling these dates should we need them in the future would be very problematic.

The resultant schema may look like something like this:

```graphql
enum NotificationAction {
  PUBLISH_CREATE
  PUBLISH_UPDATE
}

enum EmailStatus {
  ACTIVE
  INACTIVE
}

type UserNotification {
  id: ID! @id
  createdAt: DateTime! @createdAt
  updatedAt: DateTime! @updatedAt
  action: [NotificationAction!]!
  type: String!
  itemId: [String!]
  spamCount: Number
  users: [User!]!
}

type User {
  id: ID! @id
  createdAt: DateTime! @createdAt
  updatedAt: DateTime! @updatedAt
  lastLogin: DateTime!
  firstName: String!
  lastName: String!
  email: String! @unique
  emailStatus: EmailStatus! @default(value: ACTIVE)
  password: String
  tempToken: String
  tempTokenExpiry: Float
  jobTitle: String
  country: String
  city: String
  howHeard: String
  permissions: [Permission!]! @scalarList(strategy: RELATION)
  team: Team
  isConfirmed: Boolean! @default(value: false)
  notifications: [UserNotification!]!
}
```
