---
title: October 19, 2021
tags: [AWS, Testing, Accessibility]
date: 2021-10-19
---

## AWS Permissions for Testing

**Description:** Marek experienced some confusion regarding environmental variables when testing Edwin's [pull request](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/80) to handle email bounces. He saw the SQS queues in the production environment but not in the gpa-lab2 environment even though the credentials Edwin was using were for the gpa-lab2 environment. This turned out to be user error as the gpa-lab2 environment dashboard defaults to the us-east-2 region and by switching to us-east-1 Marek saw the relevant SQS queues.

Regardless, this mix up highlighted the need to define which environments we should be testing in. Michael believes that anything pertaining to SES should be tested in the gpa-lab2 environment to avoid the possibility of harming the reputation score of the production environment.

To that end we should create an equivalent to the commons-dev user in the gpa-lab2 environment. This user will have access to SES and SQS and will be able to run this workflow without adversely impacting our production environment. This two-environment approach is fine when the testing consists of manually uploading files to S3, but may not be so smooth when initiating actions from the application.

Alternatively, we could look into cross-account permissions to allow SQS in our production account to initiate SES in our gpa-lab2 environment for testing purposes.

**Next Steps:** For the time being, Marek will test Edwin's PR using his own credentials to the gpa-lab2 environment. However, in the next week or two we should pin down proper account access for testing.

## Flaky Tests - Followup

**Description:** Following up on the discussion from Oct. 7th regarding [flaky tests]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/10/07.html#flaky-tests' | relative_url }}), Edwin suggested a potential fix. Specifically, he believed that changing the `wrapper.update()` call to `wrapper.setProps({})` might resolve the issue. Per the [Enzyme docs](https://enzymejs.github.io/enzyme/docs/api/ReactWrapper/update.html), the `update` method does not force a mounted component re-render and `setProps` is the preferred way to do this if required. He was unable to test this change locally because all tests were passing in his environment.

During the meeting, Marek tested this solution on the two tests failing in his local environment (`PackageEdit` and `PlaybookPreview`), but the change did not work. He also attempted to use the `wrapper.mount()` method, however, that likewise failed to resolve the issue.

It seems that since the component always goes to loading state before the error state, the tests fail because `wrapper.update()` is capturing the element in the loading state. Rather than continually increasing the wait time, Marek suggested adding a second call of `wait`. When testing this out locally the issue was resolved. The updated test looks like this:

```js
it('renders ApolloError', async () => {
  const wrapper = mount(Component);

  await wait(0);
  await wait(0);
  wrapper.update();

  const apolloError = wrapper.find('ApolloError');

  expect(apolloError.exists()).toEqual(true);
});
```

**Next Step:** Marek will update the flaky tests using the double wait approach and the team will monitor the effectiveness of these changes.

## Collapsible Sections Accessibility

Edwin had some comments about Marek's [pull request](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/360) adding collapsible sections to the playbook edit form. He found that the screen reader he tested with was not correctly identifying the visibility toggle button nested in the section header. The net result was that the screen reader was unable to correctly announce the presence of hidden content.

As a separate concern, Marek read in a [W3C guide](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/examples/accordion/accordion.html) that the user should be able to navigate through the accordion using the arrow keys. The component as he wrote it does not provide that functionality. However, per the [WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#accordion) shared by Edwin, the arrow navigation is optional and we should be okay so long as the user can tab through the elements and open the section using the Enter and Space keys.

Finally, Edwin was uncertain about the use of the `section` tag to wrap the entire component since it has an implicit role of `region`, when the div nested within the section is the true `region` for the content.

**Next Steps:** Edwin said that he will replicate the section in a CodePen where he can isolate the component in question. Therein, he will try to identify the best way forward to resolve the aria labelling issues.

## Unsupported JavaScript

**Description:** Edwin also found that a change introduced in a prior merge ([client PR #356](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/356)) was causing errors for him. Specifically, the use of the [Array.prototype.at()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/at) method when setting the page title for a dynamic page (commit [e34b57](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/356/commits/e34b5780085bea9e2936742166cfc3b2f80f778a#diff-aa9d92edf840add7503938fbab029f5d758333f308c11e3ed4122cb81cf9419dR19)) was failing in the browser.

The `at()` method is a newer JavaScript feature that is unsupported in some browsers (most notably Safari). Oddly enough, Edwin was testing in Chrome version 94, which should support this feature (since version 92). In any case, given that it is causing errors, the use of `at` should be replaced with older equivalents that are more broadly supported. For example:

```js
// The original line:
return filtered.at(-1);

// Could be converted to:
return filtered[filtered.length - 1];

// Or:
return filtered.slice(-1)[0];
```

Both Marek and Edwin were surprised that this potential issue was not transpiled away by Babel. Perhaps we should review the target for our compilations and set browserlist to target a wider range of browsers.
