---
title: October 21, 2021
tags: [AWS, Documentation, Okta]
date: 2021-10-21
---

## AWS Cross-Account Permissions

Cross account permissions for SQS

dev connected to gpa-lab2 environment
commons-local

create trust between the two accounts
permissions on SQS policy

- IAM user from given account can access
  for the user grant SQS permissions

have to do the same thing for other services (S3 and probably SES)

Move everything to the gpa-lab2 environment for local environments.

## Notification Flow Documentation

Michael and Edwin working on document

architectural schematic

There is nothing redact account numbers

## Okta on Dev

**Description:** Temi recently reported that the integration with Okta is not working on the development environment. It is important to note that this issue does not impact the production environment where users can successfully authenticate from the login with Okta button or from the Okta dashboard.

Michael set up an Okta developer account that he has connected to the development environment. He has experienced no issues using this account, indicating that the issue is likely caused by a misconfiguration on the Okta side of things.

For the purposes of testing, we can all create our own Okta developer accounts which Michael will connect to his. While this solution is fine for the time being, we should resolve the issue with the State Okta dev. This way we know the development environment configurations will accurately reflect the production environment.

**Next Steps:** Reach out to the Okta team to initiate an discussion to identify why the Okta dev integration isn't working.
