---
title: October 28, 2021
tags: [Tech Debt]
date: 2021-10-28
---

## Tech Debt Planning

**Description:** The team spent the whole meetings discussing the items from our [technical debt backlog](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1L9CKpNF3dXLunb7pcSBEBcWyuJivQdDQf077CLlaCmQ/edit#gid=6042965) to help determine a prioritization.

The developers all agreed that updating Prisma to v2 should be the principal goal of the tech debt effort. Perusing the official [migration guide](https://www.prisma.io/docs/guides/upgrade-guides/upgrade-from-prisma-1/how-to-upgrade), it seems like a fairly dramatic upgrade and it will have large downstream effects.

Terri also suggested that we should try to convert all remaining components to use CSS modules rather than un-scoped CSS. Besides improve our dev experience, this will have the positive externality of allow us to remove the outdated `withStyles` portion of our custom Next.js config and to update `node-sass` and replated packages. In a related effort we should conduct an audit regarding our use of Semantic UI so that we can start to phase out it's use.

The team discussed upgrading Next.js (which just released version 12) . The one thing militating for the upgrade is that v11 provides ESM support, which would allow us to update the `react-markdown` package. See our [write up of the recent dependency]({{ 'dev_meetings/2021/09/14.html#client---terri' | relative_url }}) updates for more information on these considerations.

The major update of Apollo from 2 to 3 occurred in the last major dependency update ([d3f87b](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/commit/d3f87baaf36324a2cc38d671b58cddfa924d6293#diff-7ae45ad102eab3b6d7e7896acd08c427a9b25b346470d7bc6507b6481575d519)) so it seems that we are okay in that regard.

Another key item is remove the document types from all Elasticsearch documents. This deprecated feature of Elasticsearch has caused problems when we try to restore Elasticsearch from backups. It should be a fairly straight forward fix but we should address it early on to allow to facilitate any potential disaster recovery efforts.

Related to this is the outstanding data restoration effort. We will need to run a script against the API to rebuild the missing document data in GraphQL. For the sake of data integrity, this should happen before any alternations to the data structure (either in the API or GraphQL). Otherwise we will need to do a reconstruction and transformation at the the same time.

Marek raised the need to write unit tests on server and API. We also could do with adding Cypress tests to the client repository, however this is a lower priority task.

Terri reminded the team of two low-level infrastructure changes we want to make, namely:

1. Migration the RabbitMQ queues over to SQS - Michael suggested that this should wait until the performance improvement phase of work
1. Moving the workers out of the API and onto their own server

We should a some point dust off Edwin's [accessibility improvements backlog](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FcH0HFJjdGtzPUb8_bCe9Fr2HcvkElUe-3eXLRyXXyg/) and start working our way through those issues. The most dramatic improvements would be made fixing the following two issues:

1. Modals do not receive focus
1. The navigation sub-menu dropdowns do not receive focus

Marek raised the need to complete the splitting buckets into public and internal content and eliminating the public user.

Another important performance upgrade would be image optimization.

Michael asked if we can make the environmental variables available at run time rather than build time as we had before. That way we could avoid using an `.env` file. Unfortunately, this may not be possible for some values since we eliminated `getInitialProps` from the application.

Michael also suggested that we may want to update Kubernetes again. We are on version 1.19, which [officially reached end of life today](https://kubernetes.io/releases/), although AWS manage Kubernetes does maintain version longer than the official release schedule. The latest release is version 1.22.

The team concluded with a discussion of the differences between Elasticsearch and OpenSearch:

- We are currently on Elasticsearch version 7.10. This is the highest version available in AWS's managed Elasticsearch. Elasticsearch itself has already advanced to 7.15.
- Using OpenSearch will likely be much easier to integrate into our system and manage long term. That said, we are very concerned about it's divergence from true Elasticsearch and the poor quality of AWS's documentation.
- If we decide to stay on pure Elasticsearch (as opposed to OpenSearch) we can probably purchase something from the AWS marketplace rather than trying to roll our own.
- As a last result we could potentially move to Elasticsearch's own hosted service. Although the funding, security review, and added complexity of connecting two IAAS providers together makes the prospect unappealing.

## Prioritization

Given the above discussion, this is the list of tasks that the team believes should be addressed in the coming tech debt sprints.

_Prerequisite:_ Stand up test environment in the gpa-lab2 AWS environment using production backups. This environment will run the branch for technical debt.

1. Restore the lost data to GraphQL.

   - Attempt first in the new test environment
   - Validate on the current beta environment
   - Once confirmed to work, replicate steps in production

1. Remove Elasticsearch document `_type` property.

   - Remove the `_type` property from all content already indexed into the API.
   - Ensure that the type is no longer getting written during indexing.
   - Remove references to the they `_type` in the client-side searches. Where these references exist, they can be replaced with the `type` property with in the document `source` object.

1. Update Prisma to version 2.

   - Possibly follow a test driven development approach whereby we write tests for the expected outputs of the current server resolvers. Then we should be easily able to identified areas of incompatibility that must be addressed.

1. Migrate all components to CSS modules

   - To be preceded by an audit of all the components in the client repo to identify which ones need to be converted over to CSS modules.
   - Once completed we should be able to eliminate the custom Webpack config and update the remaining dependencies (including Next.js).

1. Add unit tests to the server and API repos

**Next Steps:** We can talk about what is needed to stand up the new test environment during our next dev meeting on Tuesday (Nov. 2).
