---
title: August 10, 2021
tags: [Commons, Outage, GraphQL Playground, Login, Playbook URLs]
date: 2021-08-10
---

## Outage Recurrence

**Description:** We have had two recurrences of the [July 10 Commons outage]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/07/13.html#weekend-site-outage' | relative_url }}) caused by misconfigured port forwarding - once on August 4 and again on August 6. The incident on the 4th was caught quickly by the team and Michael was able to take corrective action immediately leading to a brief outage of several minutes. The incident on the 6th was somewhat longer as Michael was out of the office that day. We were alerted to the issue at 4:58 pm and had it resolved at 7:18 pm after Terri was able to reach Michael and have him walk her through the fix. Today (August 10), Michael gave us a quick readout of the causes and full remediation.

As expected, all traffic from Cloudflare was encrypted and routed to port 443 on the [ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/) load balancer. The SSL connection was terminated at this point and the traffic was sent unencrypted internally to the Kubernetes cluster. The error arose when this unencrypted traffic was mistakenly routed from the load balancer to port 443 on the cluster's services (rather than port 80). Michael corrected this issue by forwarding traffic to the correct port internally.

Prior to upgrading Kubernetes to v1.19, these routing rules were configured via the [ingress controller](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/). However, in the course of testing the upgrade, Michael removed these rules from the configuration file and set them manually. The manual settings were wiped out each time the EKS restarted a server, thereby resurfacing the issue. To prevent further recurrence, Michael added the routing rules back to the configurations for the ingress controller. This means that whenever EKS restarts, they will be automatically reapplied.

Michael also closed port 80 on the ingress load balancer as we do not expect (and hence do not want to permit) any external unencrypted traffic.

**Next Steps:** Marek asked Michael to write up his findings more fully so that we could record the lessons learned.

## Testing Prisma Playground

**Description:** Michael informed the team that he made some changes to the configuration of the Prisma GraphQL playground endpoint. He asked that we test it to make sure that it continues to behave as expected.

The changes pertained to the way in which we route traffic to the playground. The connection to playground is proxied from the edit server to the Kubernetes cluster. Prior to now, this connection was on port 80 using HTTP. Michael has switched the connection to encrypted traffic on port 443.

**Next Steps:** Michael will expose the dev [playground](https://prisma.dev.america.gov/) and Terri will run some queries to ensure that everything works as expected.

## Login Flow Refactor

**Description:** Terri gave a quick overview of the changes she's made to the login flow (which will be added in a forthcoming pull request). Specifically, she streamlined the process by replacing three different authentication tokens with one common authentication token received from Cognito.

_Old Flow:_

1. User logs in and receives an authentication cookie from Cognito
1. This cookie is passed to the sign-in mutations which returns:
  - An instance of the `americaCommonsToken` providing access to the server
  - An instance of the `ES_TOKEN` providing access to the API

_New Flow:_

1. User logs in and receives an authentication cookie from Cognito
  - This cookie is appended as a bearer token to each request (API and server)
  - The if needed, the user's profile will be retrieved on the server using the data from this cookie

The API will continue to validate non-Cognito tokens in order to accommodate requests originating from WordPress Elasticsearch feeder plugin.

Note that this will cause problems in our local environments as the playground is unable to retrieve the Cognito token. Terri is not certain why this is the case but suspects that it is a CORS issue. To continue using the playground after the change, retrieve the Cognito token from local storage and add it as a bearer token to the playground's authorization header.

Also in the forthcoming PR Terri:

- Removed `getInitialProps` in the `_app` component, which was blocking newer data retrieval methods in other pages.
- Added static generation to certain pages (such as the about page)

## Playbooks Permalinks (and Recording Requirements)

**Description:** Temi and Marek both said that they had some trouble tracking the conversation in the new Slack channel [#lab-product-contentcommons](https://pdchat.slack.com/archives/C029RSCA1QF). Namely, it was difficult to keep track of the final requirements regarding the vanity URL structure for the playbooks. The team agrees that a while Slack is an appropriate venue for initial discussions, any final decisions must be preserved in some sort of requirements document. At the close of the Slack conversation Farshad mentioned that he would add everything determined to the requirements, however, we do not know where those requirements live. Terri will follow up with Farshad to get access to that document.

_Update (August 12):_ Since we met, Farshad has added and [pinned](https://pdchat.slack.com/archives/C029RSCA1QF/p1628610698003100) the requirements to the Slack channel.

**Decision:** The following decisions were made regarding the requirements for playbook vanity URLs:

- We will add a landing page for all playbooks at the URL `commons.america.gov/playbooks`. This page will list all of the policy priority "buckets".
- Clicking any of the policy priorities will bring the user to a landing page for that priority at `commons.america.gov/playbooks/<priority>`. This page will list all of the playbooks for the selected policy priority.
- Clicking on one of these playbooks will open that playbook at the URL `commons.america.gov/playbooks/<priority>/<playbook-title>`

Given that the final part of the new URL path is the playbook title, this new structure implies that we will be search for playbooks by title. This is a bit problematic for several reasons:

- It precludes multiple playbooks from using the same title.
- There could be a mis-match between the link and the actual title if we strip out special characters. This would necessitate some potentially complex transformations/regex matching upon each page visit.

Marek suggested that rather than searching by title, we add a permalink property to each playbook. Modelled off of the WordPress permalink approach, this property will be generated based on the initial title of the playbook. It would allow for playbooks to have the same title but a different URL path. Terri was also inclined to take this approach

There are some open questions with the permalink approach (most notably if/how we allow users to change the permalink). However, these seem like obstacles we can tackle later on.