---
title: August 24, 2021
tags: [Commons, Policy Priorities, Next, Email Notifications]
date: 2021-08-24
---

## Afghanistan Policy Priority

**Description:** At the end of last week, the Global Campaigns Strategy Unit wanted Afghanistan added as a policy priority. This lead to a lot of back and forth between the dev team, BreAnn, and the Campaigns team. BreAnn was resistant to adding it as a priority, because while it is a matter of immediate concern, it has not been identified as a GPA policy priority.

BreAnn also did not like the fallback light blue color for the policy badge. The color implied that it was a policy priority when in fact it was not. She preferred the dark navy color as the badge background.

Terri [added a check](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/commit/100c5b5747f86279d5508b24222431796817ab51) to the Policies component to filter out and the policy priorities that do not have an associated theme. This way, any unexpected (i.e. ad hoc) policy priority would not appear in the grid. 

**Next Steps:** We need to continue to augment the playbook back end. We will add the country dropdown to the playbooks edit form so that users can search for playbooks by country. This also reemphasizes the need to add an administrative interface where we can add/remove/modify the policy priorities without running queries via the playground.

## Change to Next Environmental Variables

**Description:** Terri provided a brief overview of her efforts to resolve the build failures on our cloud environments that appeared after [CDP-2491](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/336) was merged in. It seems that the problem was caused by the way environmental variables are loaded in our Kubernetes cluster. Specifically, the application is build after which we use [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) to inject runtime environmental variables. This works when using `getInitialProps` but fails for static builds, since the environment variables are required at build time. 

To remedy the situation, Terri:

1. ([1cc773f](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/commit/1cc773fe8a99c0699a13ebbf1d4ee639cdb6443d)) Removed the `publicRuntimeConfig` property from our `next.config.js` file - Public runtime configuration are available _only_ on pages using `getInitialProps`. [[see docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/runtime-configuration)]
1. ([5873a7a](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/commit/5873a7a14bd4dcb389caad84ead67b249f6947a5)) Changed envvar prefix from `REACT_APP` to `NEXT_PUBLIC` - This makes the environment variables available at runtime in the browser.

Additionally, Michael created a new Jenkins job (commons-dev-client-v1.19-dotenv) that writes a `.env` file to the server before the build rather than injecting the envvars from ConfigMap.

Marek wondered whether there is an equivalent to the `NEXT_PUBLIC` prefix that makes are envvars available on the server but not in the browser. Terri said that yes this is possible simply by omitting the `NEXT_PUBLIC` prefix for build time variables. Runtime variables can be provided to the server using the `serverRuntimeConfig` property in the `next.config.js` file.

More information on loading environmental variables in Next.js can be found on their [documentation site](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/environment-variables).

The team then had a lengthy (somewhat related) discussion about how the application was able to infer IAM server roles in non-local contexts when it is explicitly told to use the key-secret pairs from the environment variables. Nobody really knew the answer and while we suspect that the [AWS SDK](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v3/developer-guide/getting-started-browser.html) is doing the heavy lifting, it is something that we should understand better.

## Issues With Auth

**Description:** Terri described some of the issues she has found with the authentication flow in development. 

The way the flow work, the user authenticates, thereby retrieving an access token. Then, on any given page, `getServerSideProps` is used to retrieve this token. If present, it grants the user access, if not it redirects them to the login page.

We are currently using the [Auth class](https://docs.amplify.aws/lib/auth/emailpassword/q/platform/js/) from AWS Amplify to get current session and retrieve the user information. For some reason this is working on the client not on the server.

Terri also noticed issues with the token refresh. Updating the AWS Amplify [package](https://github.com/aws-amplify/amplify-js) seemed to correct the issue.

## API Build

**Description:** Terri reported that the API was building off of the latest tag rather than `origin/develop`. This should not be the case if the correct parameter is selected when running the build. However, Michael set up another build pipeline (commons-dev-api-noparam) to run without parameters.

We should revisit this after release to identify/correct the issue on the original build pipeline.

## Commons Email Notifications

**Description:** Edwin presented an overview of the work he has done so far in implementing an email notification system for Commons. His current test solution uses AWS Lambda functions, Simple Queuing Service (SQS), and Simple Email Service (SES) to batch and bulk send emails.

The system flow would look something like `S3 -> Lambda ? SQS -> Lambda ? SES` wherein:

1. The publication of a new playbook (or published changes to an existing one) writes a JSON file to a dedicated S3 bucket.
1. The creation event emitted by this S3 object triggers the first Lambda function. This function (adapted from an AWS blueprint) chunks the list of recipient email addresses and passes this on to SQS. The full steps are:
    1. Breaks the recipients list up into chunks of 50
    1. Set the SES destination and parameters
    1. Set the SQS message body
1. Upon receipt of a chunk of email addresses, SQS triggers the second Lambda function. It is currently using the standard queue, which the documentation states may result in some duplicate sends. The other option is to run it in a first in first out (FIFO) synchronous fashion.
1. This second Lambda loops over the list of recipients and sends an email to each using the `sendBulkTemplatedEmail` function from the AWS SDK. 

**Missing Pieces:**

The arrows in the flow diagram above indicate connections that Edwin has successfully completed. The question marks indicate steps that he still needs to tie together.

The first missed connection (between the chunking Lambda function and SQS) seems to be caused by a lack of SQS permissions. We should create an IAM role that can be applied to the Lambda function giving it access to SQS. If possible, we should scope to access just to the particular queue that manages our email notifications.

Regarding the final part of the equation, Edwin is seeing the emails going out in the CloudWatch logs. However, he is not receiving any of the messages in his inbox. Furthermore, he must first verifying any email addresses that he wants to send to or the email fails to send. This seems like odd behavior, as typically only sender addresses need to be verified.

Another problem is that while they do not hit his inbox, in CloudWatch he is seeing duplicate emails sent. This is likely because he is using a standard queue rather than FIFO (as mentioned above).

Edwin noted that there are some advanced SES settings (such as throttling and retry policy) that may help resolve the issues he is experiencing, but he has not had time to explore them yet.

**Templating:**

The object written to S3 to kick off the flow includes the data to be written to the email template in this case (link, unsubscribe link, and title) as well as an array of recipients. The result looks something like this:

```json
  "defaultData": {
    "link": "http://localhost:3000/playbook/vanity-url",
    "unsubscribe": "http://localhost:3000/playbook/vanity-url/unsubscribe",
    "title": "Test"
  },
  "recipients": [
    {
      "firstName": "FirstName-0",
      "email": "success@simulator.amazonses.com"
    },
    {
      "firstName": "FirstName-1",
      "email": "success@simulator.amazonses.com"
    },
  ]
}
```

Email templates are added to SES under the **Email Template** tab. These templates must be JSON format. An HTML version of the email can be stringified and added as a node on the JSON template. The templates use the handlebars-style interpolation to populate the email with variables. For example:

{% raw %}
```json
{
  "Template": {
    "TemplateName": "UpdatedProjectTemplate",
    "SubjectPart": "The {{playbookTitle}} Playbook has been updated",
    "TextPart": "Hi {{userFirstName}},\n\nThe Playbook you are following has been updated.\n\nCopy and paste this link into your browser: {{link}}.\n\nYou are receiving this email because you are subscribed to receive notifications when the Playbook titled {{playbookTitle}} has been updated.\n\nIf you received this email by mistake, you can change your notifications selections or unsubscribe here: ____.",
    "HtmlPart": "<div className=\"email\" style=\"\npadding: 16px;\nfont-family: sans-serif;\n line-height: 1.5;\n font-size: 16px;\n\">\n<p>Hi {{userFirstName}},</p>\n\n<p>The Playbook you are following has been updated.</p>\n\n<p><a href=\"{{link}}\">View updates</a></p>\n\n<p>Can't click the button above? Copy and paste this link into your browser: {{link}}</p>\n\n<p>You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to receive notifications when the Playbook titled {{playbookTitle}} has been updated.</p>\n\n<p>If you received this email by mistake, you can <a href=\"\">change your notifications selections or unsubscribe here</a>.</p></div>"
  }
}
```
{% endraw %}

The team is still undecided on how to store the list of recipients for each notification type. Marek suggested using a DynamoDB store for the recipients list. For the purposes of of maintaining an up to date UI, the user profile would store the particular subscriptions for a given user. But when that user subscribes/unsubscribes to/from a notification, the DynamoDB list would be updated. This would obviate the need for recompiling the list of recipients each time a notification is sent out.

**Resources:**

Here are some articles Edwin found helpful during his research on this project.

- [How to Use AWS Lambda to Send High Volume Emails at Scale](https://read.iopipe.com/how-to-use-aws-lambda-to-send-high-volume-emails-at-scale-10efe65b2f32)
- [6 Lessons Learned Sending Mass Emails With AWS Lambda](https://read.iopipe.com/6-lessons-learned-sending-mass-emails-with-aws-lambda-3c5e56e19571)

Incidentally, while researching this process Edwin found a Lambda blueprint that may be useful in optimizing images on upload.
