---
title: August 26, 2021
tags: [Commons, Email Notifications, Talking Points]
date: 2021-08-26
---

## Commons Email Notifications

**Description:** Edwin provided the team with an update on his efforts to set up email notifications for Commons.

Some of the [issues]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/08/24.html#commons-email-notifications' | relative_url }}) that he reported on in our last dev meeting on Tuesday (August 24) are caused by the fact that the account's SES is in sandbox mode. In [sandbox mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/DeveloperGuide/request-production-access.html), SES is limited to:

- One message per second.
- A maximum of 200 messages per 24 hours.
- Only verified email addresses as recipients.

However, sandbox mode is not the only problem. Edwin recreated the set up in his personal AWS account (which is also in sandbox mode) and was able to successfully send and receive test emails. As such, there seems to be something else in our environment preventing the email from being sent/received.

Edwin is still seeing a large number of duplicate sends even with small list size (51 recipients). To mitigate this, he is looking into switching to a [first in first out (FIFO) queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/FIFO-queues.html). With a FIFO queue each item requires a unique identifier, which ensures that each operation is only performed once. A potential downside is that it introduces rate limits (3000/second) that are not applied to standard queues. A possible way to reduce the impact of these rate limits is to batch send in groups of 10 rather than sending each email individually. Other potential mitigation options include setting SQS delays or adjusting to the Lambda function to handle one message at a time.

Edwin also believes that we need to set up a [dead-letter queue](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-dead-letter-queues.html) to handle unsuccessful SQS operations. This could be used to alert the team to issues or remove bounce backs from the recipients list.

Edwin determined how to clean up the S3 bucket a after a send is complete. This will remove the S3 object that initiates the send.

Michael expressed some concern that timing issues with multiple concurrent notification events may confound the system. He suggested that each object added to S3 to initiate a bulk email send use a unique file name. For example the S3 object name could include a timestamp or unique hash to ensure that a new create event is registered each time.

**Next steps:** Edwin will switch the queuing over to FIFO with the hope that this will remove duplicate sends. Michael will check the AWS account settings to try and determine why emails not going out.

## Talking Points AWS Access

**Description:** IRM completed setting up the AWS environment the Talking Points Application on August 12. However, Michael and Marek are awaiting AWS console access for the account.

Marek thinks that they need to fill out the SE-AWS Account Request from provided by Thorben. However, we do not have the requisite information to complete the request. Perhaps we can get that information from Nikhil from the CPMO team.