---
title: June 03, 2021
tags: [PropTypes, JSDocs]
date: 2021-06-03
---

## PropTypes Imports

**Description:** We've been somewhat inconsistent in how we import the prop-types package in our files. Previously, we decided to always import the full prop-types package rather than destructuring the needed methods on import. This is meant to simplify the addition/amendment of prop-types by allowing us to make changes without worrying about the updating the import statement. This shouldn't have any appreciable impact on bundle size as prop-types are subject to tree shaking during transpilation.

However, inconsistencies remain. We sometimes capitalize `PropTypes` when importing, while other times we lower case it (`propTypes`). Below is the reasoning for each option:

- Arguments for capitalizing:
  - That is how it is presented in the [official React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/typechecking-with-proptypes.html) on prop-types.
  - The bulk of the (Commons) code base seems to use the uppercase variant.
- Arguments for lower-casing
  - Upper-casing is typically reserved for classes and the prop-types import is not a class.
  - This would preserve consistency with the `propTypes` method on React components, which is lowercase

**Decision:** For the sake of simplicity and in order to stay consistent with the React docs, we've decided that the prop-types package should be imported in full using the uppercase syntax.

**Correct:**

✅ Uppercase `PropTypes`

```jsx
import PropTypes from 'prop-types';

const Component = ( {s, n} ) => (...);

Component.propTypes = {
  s: PropTypes.string,
  n: PropTypes.number,
}
```

**Incorrect:**

❌ Lowercase `propTypes`:

```jsx
import propTypes from 'prop-types';

const Component = ( {s, n} ) => (...);

Component.propTypes = {
  s: propTypes.string,
  n: propTypes.number,
}
```

❌ Destructure methods on import:

```jsx
import { string, number } from 'prop-types';

const Component = ( {s, n} ) => (...);

Component.propTypes = {
  s: string,
  n: number,
}
```

## Advanced PropTypes

**Description:** Terri noted that we are missing out on some of the benefits of prop-types by not fully utilizing some of it's more advanced features. Specifically, we could be using the `isRequired` and `defaultProps` methods more frequently.

A question came up regarding whether we still need to check for the presence of a prop marked as required. The general consensus was that yes, checks are required since the prop-types package throws errors at runtime (and only in development) rather than during compilation. This means that type errors could slip through into the final bundle.

## JSDoc Comments for Destructured Props

**Description:** Some members of the team are uncertain as to how they should document destructured props using JSDoc comments. The [official JSDoc documentation](https://jsdoc.app/tags-param.html#parameters-with-properties) suggests listing the destructured object as one named parameter followed by each property as a distinct parameter named as `parentName.property`. This seems like a reasonable approach and it was agreed that we should proceed in that style.

_**Note:**_ This method of documentation is not limited to props destructing and should be used any time a destructured object is passed as parameters to a function.

**Decision:** The incoming props should be listed as the first `@param` with the type `Object`. A description for this parameter is optional. Then, each destructured property should be listed as it's own `@param` with the appropriate type and the name of `props.propName`. For instance the string prop title would be listed as `@param {string} props.title`. Each of these destructured properties should be accompanied with a short description.

**Full Example:**

```js
/**
 * Short description of explaining the component.
 * @param {Object} props
 * @param {string[]} props.a This is how one would document an array of strings.
 * @param {string} props.b This prop is a simple string.
 * @param {bool} props.c Prop c is a boolean.
 */
const Component = ({a, b, c}) => (...)
```
