---
title: June 17, 2021
tags: [Dependabot, Commons Beta, Dev Domain, Elasticsearch, ClamAV]
date: 2021-06-17
---

## 1) Commons Quick Hits

We started off the meeting by discussing some Commons items:

1. Edwin asked how he could get playbooks to show up in his local admin dashboard. Since we don't have multi-content dashboards set up yet, the order in which a team's `contentTypes` are listed will determine which content type is loaded in the dashboard. The last type listed takes precedence, so `PLAYBOOK` should be added last or all other types should be removed on the given team's `contentTypes` node. This can be set via the GraphQL playground at `localhost:4000/graphql` using the `updateTeam` mutation.
1. Marek warned Terri of a potential issue to be on the look out for in his recent [pull request](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/302) adding an animation during additional resource uploads. While demoing the changes he noticed that the animation transition lagged behind the actual file uploads, although in his prior tests everything worked fine. Terri suggested that this might be resolved by including a cleanup function in the `useEffect` hook and stated that she would check for that behavior during code review.
1. While reviewing the [pull request](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/304) adding the publish/unpublish functionality to playbooks, Marek noted a mismatch between the action buttons at the top and bottom of the edit playbook screen. He found that the validation conditions that disable/enable a given button were inconsistent and that they did not always match the correct state of the form. While he did not necessarily recommend introducing a [state machine](/presentations/state-machines) into the application, he pointed out that this is exactly the sort of situation that they seek to address.
1. The team questioned why the text editor is not a required field on the edit playbook screen. When no content is added to the text editor, the playbook is blank and for all intents and purposes useless. Terri stated that the designers had a rationale for not requiring this field but she could not recall what it was. We will raise this as a question for BreAnn in the Commons standup tomorrow.
1. Marek wondered how/if the additional resources section should be rendered on the playbook preview/front end when it is empty. Currently the empty section renders a blue bar with no title above white space down to the footer. Perhaps the entire section should be hidden with the previous section extending all the way down to the top of the footer. We will raise this as another question in the Commons standup tomorrow.
1. Edwin continued to address the issue of playbook previews loading blank in the development environment (also true for playbook pages on the front end). When logging the props provided to the preview page by `getServerSideProps`, he found that they are initially `undefined`. Once the GraphQL query that retrieves the playbook data resolves, the updated props are passed on. On our local environments, this causes a re-render of the page with the correct data. Once deployed, however, the re-render does not occur and the page gets stuck on the initial data. He has tried several methods of resolving the issue and is going to add a fallback client-side query to ensure that the data is properly fetched and rendered.

## 2) Dependabot Security Alerts

**Description:** There are a several open pull requests updating vulnerable dependencies in the Commons server and API repos. These PRs, initiated by [Dependabot](https://dependabot.com/), are all for patch versions of nested dependencies. It is difficult to evaluate how urgently to treat these vulnerabilities, because often the severity is unclear or limited to a particular use case. Furthermore, we do not feel comfortable updating any runtime dependencies so close to an upcoming release. For this reason, we need to come up with some sort of regular, systematic cadence to our dependency updates.

The team members all approach dependency updates in more or less the same fashion. Namely:

- Patch versions are generally merged in without any hesitation.
- Minor versions require a little more consideration and the developer looks at what the update entails before proceeding.
- Major version demand a high degree of scrutiny. The library's Changelog is carefully reviewed and the developer attempts to identify all breaking changes and their potential impact on our code.

**Decision:** We will address dependency updates in the short period between a release and the start of work on the next feature. All resolvable updates recommended by Dependabot or `npm audit` will be accepted. Furthermore, non-security patch and minor updates will be rolled in. Major version updates will be evaluated and included at the team's discretion. By updating immediately after a release, we limit the potential impact on the production environment and maximize the time during which we can catch any issue in our development environment. Critical vulnerabilities can certainly be addressed outside of this cadence, but that situation should be exception rather than the rule.

## 3) Commons Beta Environment

**Description:** Temi asked what the plan is to move the Commons changes currently on development into the beta environment. We are nearing the release of playbooks and she has a large backlog of tickets that have passed testing on development but are now languishing without the beta environment to test in.

Michael would like to [update Elasticsearch](#5-elasticsearch-upgrade) on beta first, but then we can build a new version of beta off of the latest codebase. In the unlikely event of a hotfix between now and the release of playbooks Michael can save the state of beta, swap in a replica of the current prod environment, and then once the hotfix is merged revert to the saved state of beta so Temi can continue testing.

## 4) Development Domain

**Description:** The team discussed purchasing a non-gov web domain that we could use for our development environments. Having this domain would grant us greater freedom to automate the provisioning of development/testing environments. We could also avoid going through IRM to make DNS changes on our .gov domain, which typically takes several days.

There is precedent for the use of such development domains within the Bureau. For example, the Web team uses the `getusinfo.com` domain for their development and edit environments. We are only interested in using it in development.

Regarding security, all the services we would use to acquire and maintain the domain are Fedramped and would remain within our VPC. The domain would not be connected to any production or public-facing services and would actually improve the isolation between our development and production environments.

We would only need one root domain (something like gpalab.com) and could add all of our dev sites as sub-domains.

**Next Steps:** Terri will raise the idea with Clara in their meeting later today. Upon approval to proceed, Michael will acquire an appropriate domain via Route 53 in our AWS account.

## 5) Elasticsearch Upgrade

**Description:** We are currently in the process of upgrading Elasticsearch for Commons. The latest Elasticsearch release is [7.13](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack/current/index.html) and Michael wants to get up to at least 7.10. Our production environment is on version 6.2 while development has been running 7.9 for some time without any significant issues.

The one thing to note is that for compatibility reasons we need to complete a graduated [upgrade to 6.8](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack/7.13/upgrading-elastic-stack.html) prior to migrating to any 7.x version. There were some deprecations and breaking changes moving to 7, the most significant for us is that the hits total is now an object rather than a string.

**Next Steps:** Michael will upgrade all sub-prod environments (development, staging, beta) to at least 7.10. After the release of playbooks we can upgrade production to a 7.x version.

## 6) ClamAV

**Description:** Michael successfully set up ClamAV to scan file uploads to Commons dev by mounting an EFS volume to the AWS Lambda function. As anticipated, connecting to EFS increases the Lambda function's runtime and usage costs. However, the costs are still not too substantial. He performed an initial (one-time scan) of all 3,000 files in the development bucket which cost about $45. It is yet to be seen whether the use of EFS also results in a perceptible increase in upload times for the end user.

Currently there is some redundant scanning whereby objects are scanned both when they are added to the authoring bucket and upon being copied to the published bucket. Ideally, we would only scan on the authoring bucket. However, some of the content that enters the system from outside of Publisher (like the copied WordPress featured images) are added directly to the published bucket. To address this, we should probably reroute all asset uploads to an authoring/quarantine bucket regardless of source.

Another requirement that remains unresolved is notifying the user when the file they attempted to upload is flagged as malicious. We can probably use SNS to notify the worker thread that an upload has been flagged and proceed from there. We will need to spend some time in upcoming sprints to figure this out.
