---
title: June 24, 2021
tags: [System Administration]
date: 2021-06-24
---

## Commons Quick Hits

- Several places in the playbook mockups (dashboard, preview, frontend) show relative dates (such as "today") and times rather than simple dates. This presents challenges regarding how to calculate the relative dates, what thresholds to use when showing a relative/normal date, and how to calculate timezones. An additional consideration is that we would like to reduce and eventually entirely remove our dependence on the (now deprecated) Moment.js library for time transformations (since it is a very heavy library).
- Temi and Terri have both observed that copying some formatted content into the text editor does not always work as expected. Terri saw the behavior when copying content from an email newsletter. Temi wondered more generally what is the best way for her to replicate test playbooks as she had some issues when copying in links and bulleted lists.
- Temi asked under what conditions she should see the error state demonstrated in the dashboard mockups. The mockups are a bit confusing because the error says: "Error Uploading!" but there is no way to upload files from the dashboard. Furthermore, the query to populate the content table pulls in all the items not individual rows, so an error state would pertain to the whole table, not just one item. Terri suggested that perhaps the error states are in response to failed bulk actions (specifically publish/unpublish) or related to GraphQL subscriptions via web sockets, which we replaced with polling. In any case, we can safely ignore the error states for now, as there is no use case that would trigger them at the moment.

## Systems Administrator Documentation

**Description:** With Michael being out of the office for the next few days, Terri was prompted to suggest documenting some of the systems administration task commonly performed by Michael. Of particular interest is troubleshooting the infrastructure/correcting errors when Michael is not available.

Marek stated that he has the same concerns and has as already started to document some of these procedures. At the moment he has them written down in a notebook, but intents to put them together into a "recipe book" that will be available alongside these notes.

The team then brainstormed a list of operations that should be documented:

- Adding a new build job to Jenkins
- Failed build because space is maxed out
- Failed build because Jenkins is unable to access ECR
- Get the number/list of current Commons users
- Adding a non-enterprise user to Commons
- Allow new domain in Cognito lambda function
- RabbitMQ channels fill up and need to be cleared
- Exposing the GraphQL playground
- Sync Commons dev/beta database
- Backup Elasticsearch and Commons database
- Running Prisma deploy and other actions
- Add new user to the bastion server
- Restricting access to the bastion server by IP
- Procedures for handling DDOS attack
  - How do you block an offending IP address
- Cloudflare
  - Clearing the cache
  - What network rules do we have, how do we implement them
- Adding new subdomain
  - To the root america.gov domain
  - To an existing root domain
- A crash course on `kubectl`
