---
title: February 15, 2021
tags: [Deployment Checklist, Talking Points]
date: 2022-02-15
excerpt: "Minutes from the February 15, 2021 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we write a deployment checklist."
---

## Deployment Checklist

**Update Window:** Friday February 18, 2022

**Personnel:** Terri, Michael, Edwin, Temi, Marek

**Content Freeze:** Three hours (4:00 PM - 7:00 PM)

**Order of Operation:**

1. Update changelog for API, client, and server
1. Tag the releases
   - API: minor => v6.1.0
   - Client: minor => v5.13.0
   - Server: minor => v5.11.0
1. Take snapshots for backup (Prisma DB and Elasticsearch)
1. Run the Jenkins jobs:
   - Execute API build
   - Execute server build
   - Execute prisma deploy build
   - Execute prisma seed build
   - Execute client
1. Seed the API taxonomy
   - [Generate prod bearer token](#generate-token)
   - Map api.america.gov to appropriate IPs
   - Use Postman to send `cdp_language.csv` to the bulk upload endpoint (add Bangla)
   - Use Postman to send `cdp_owner.csv` to the bulk upload endpoint (add R&A teams)
   - Use Postman to send `cdp_taxonomy.csv` to the bulk upload endpoint (new taxonomy)
1. Run GraphQL Operations
   1. Open the Prisma management playground
   1. Generate Prisma authorization token (via Jenkins)
   1. Run operations
   - [Delete redundant re-named regions](#gql-regions)
   - [Add R&A Team editors via GraphQL](#gql-update-users)
   - [Give R&A teams access to document content type](#gql-content-type)
   1. Close the Prisma playground

<details id="generate-token" open>
  <summary><strong>Generate GraphQL Bearer Token</strong></summary>
  <ol>
    <li>Download the Commons server repo (<code>git clone git@github.com:IIP-Design/content-commons-server.git</code>)</li>
    <li>Navigate into the repo directory <code>cd content-commons-server</code></li>
    <li>At the root of this directory, create file called <code>.env</code></li>
    <li>Within this file, add entries for the following variables and populate them with the appropriate values:
      <ul>
        <li><code>ES_APP_USER</code></li>
        <li><code>ES_APP_SECRET</code></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Install the needed dependencies by running <code>npm install</code></li>
    <li>Generate the token by running <code>npm run token</code>. This will print the generated token to your terminal.</li>
  </ol>
</details>

<details id="gql-regions" open>
  <summary><strong>GraphQL Delete Redundant Regions Operation</strong></summary>
  <pre><code class="language-graphql hljs">
# Get region ids
query GET_REGION {
  regions {
    id
    name
  }
}
# Delete the old bureau prefixed regions
mutation DELETE_REDUNDANT_REGIONS {
  deleteManyRegions(
    where: {
      id_in: [
        "ck9ips7u600gj0997c30j4fbt", # Bureau of African Affairs
        "ck9ips7zn00id09975i0jgzc6", # Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs
        "ck9ips7zo00ig0997mebi37tr", # Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs
        "ck9ips7zm00ic0997ah6r8vac", # Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs
        "ck9ips7u800gq0997s8rhwm74", # Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs
        "ck9ips82400nq0997xlekasum", # Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs
      ]
    }
  ) {
    __typename
  }
}
  </code></pre>
</details>

<details id="gql-update-users" open>
  <summary><strong>GraphQL Add/Update R&A Users</strong></summary>
  <pre><code class="language-graphql hljs">
# Get the team ids.
query GET_TEAMS {
  teams {
    id
    name
  }
}
# Create/Update the user.
mutation UPSERT_USER {
  upsertUser (
    where: {
      email: "user@email"
    }
    # Create the User if they don't exist yet
    create: {
      email: "user@email"
      firstName: "First"
      lastName: "Last"
      permissions: {
        set: [EDITOR]
      }
      team: {
        connect: {
          id: "team id"
        }
      }
    }
    # Update the User if they've already been added
    update: {
      email: "user@email"
      firstName: "First"
      lastName: "Last"
      permissions: {
        set: [EDITOR]
      }
      team: {
        connect: {
          id: "team id"
        }
      }
    }
  ) {
    email
    permissions
    team {
      name
    }
  }
}
  </code></pre>
</details>

<details id="gql-content-type" open>
  <summary><strong>GraphQL Set Content Type Operation</strong></summary>
  <pre><code class="language-graphql hljs">
# Get the team ids.
query GET_TEAMS {
  teams {
    id
    name
  }
}
# Give a team access to documents.
mutation UPDATE_TEAM {
  updateTeam(
    where: {
      id: "team-id"
    }
    data: {
      contentTypes: {
        set: [DOCUMENT]
      }
    }
  ) {
    name
    contentTypes
  }
}
  </code></pre>
</details>

## Talking Points

**Description:** After the full team finished preparing a deployment checklist for the Feb. 18 Commons deployment, Marek and Michael stayed on to discuss the transition of the Talking Points input application out of the Lab infrastructure. This transition consists of:

1. Re-deploying the application in the Cloud Program Management Office (CPMO) provisioned AWS environment.
1. Enabling authentication into the application using the State Department Okta instance.

Each of these tasks is described in greater detail below.

### Code Changes

Marek made a few changes to the application codebase in preparation for the move. The changes were largely limited to dependency updates and streamlining the build process. There is little noticeable difference functionally or visually in the application UI itself.

All the changes were merged from the `develop` branch to `main` yesterday (February 14) at Michael's request. In the build jobs, Michael will continue to use the `develop` branch for dev builds and the `main` branch for the prod builds.

Marek still needs to update the changelog in the repo to reflect these changes. We should also tag an official release even though we are likely to keep building off of the `main` branch. Given the scope of the changes, Marek recommends a minor release.

### Test Network Connections

The main concern for today is to ensure that we can connect the new environment to the AppSheet service.

Later today, Michael will add the required [AppSheet IP addresses](https://help.appsheet.com/en/articles/1658319-managing-ip-addresses-and-firewall-information) to the network ACL allow list so that the service can connect to the CPMO AWS environment.

Once the IP allow list is in place, Marek will connect the dev database from the CPMO AWS to the development app that he previously created in AppSheet. Steps to connect the database from that AppSheet admin page are:

1. Add a new database connection:
   1. Log into AppSheet admin
   1. Go to the "My account" tab
   1. Click on the "New Data Source" button
   1. Name the data source (ex. `tpa-dev`) and click on the "Cloud Database" option
   1. Enter the credentials and click on the "Test" and "Authorize Access" buttons
1. Change application data source:
   1. Go to the "My apps" tab
   1. Select the talking points app
   1. Click on the "Data" nav link and view the "Tables" tab
   1. Find the two tables the pull from database-1 ("quotes" and "talking_points")
   1. For each of these tables, click the table to expand
   1. In the "Storage" section click on the "Source Path" dropdown and select the "browse for more data" option
   1. In the resulting modal, select the database connection added above from there choose the appropriate table (ie. the one matching the selected table name)
   1. Click the "Save" button at the top right of the page
   1. Refresh the app preview and confirm that is still shows the correct data

**_Update (February 16, 2022)_** Marek successfully connected the new development database to a dev application in AppSheet. However, as he is not the account holder/primary account for the AppSheet team, he does not believe that he can add a new source for the production application. We will have to provide Shawn with the DB credentials and walk him through setting up the connection since he is the primary account holder.

### Synchronize Data

The future production environment Michael set up in the CPMO AWS environment is backed by a database restored from a February 11 snapshot. As such, the data will be a couple weeks out of date at the time of transition. Immediately before switching over the environments, we will need to sync the CPMO AWS database to the current production (GPA Lab AWS) database to ensure all the latest content is present. Furthermore, to ensure that there are no disruptions, we will need to implement a content freeze for the duration of the transition during which the Talking Points team cannot add/edit content.

Coordinating this content freeze should be fairly straight forward since there are only two users (Shawn & Ashley) who currently add content to the platform. Given that we have a Commons release already scheduled for Friday, we should hold off on this transition until next week (possibly Wed. February 23rd). Marek will confirm a time that works for the Talking Points team and will schedule transition the transition.

### Update DNS

Once we have completed the above steps, we will be able to point the production domain (ie. https://talkingpoints.america.gov) over to re-deployed application.

1. Update records in Cloudflare
   - Edit the CNAME which currently points to an Elastic Load Balancer in the Lab AWS account.
   - We need to verify that the added State Department Okta authentication splash screen doesn't require any additional rules to function properly. We currently bypass cache for the Talking Points application, so we shouldn't see any issues with caching.
   - With Okta in place we can disable Cloudflare Access, which currently sits in front of the Talking Points domain.
2. Update the authentication endpoints in the production Cognito instance so that the properly redirect to the new environment.

### Post-Deploy Handover Tasks

#### Solidify Terraform Script

Michael encountered some issues when running the Terraform setup script namely:

- We need the IAM role `gpalab_tpa_instance_profile` with the correct permissions in order use IAM instance profiles to authenticate internal service connections.
- Michael and Marek need console access to AWS Secrets Manager to manage environmental variables.
- There are a number of operations that fail during the setup script and must be completed manually, due to missing permissions.

Additionally, Michael wants to automate DB backups to S3 on a daily cron (to supplement the built-in RDS 35 day backups) and send RDS logs to CloudWatch.

All of these tasks are currently blocked by a lack of adequate permissions in CPMO AWS. While this does not stop us from standing up the environment, it would may rebuilding it more difficult. Marek submitted a ServiceNow support ticket (RITM0365666) regarding these outstanding issues on February 11, but has yet to receive any response.

Assuming we receive a response, Michael can finalize the Terraform script so that is is good to go should we need to rebuild.

#### Source Control

In order to fully encapsulate the project in the new environment, we want to store source code with in the AWS account itself. This will require setting up two CodeCommit repositories - one for the application code and one for the Terraform script (and a possible third for documentation, see below).

Once set up, Michael will push up the Terraform script and Marek the application code.

**NOTE:** We may have issues setting up the CodeCommit repositories as I don't believe we have access to add SSH keys to IAM profiles. Perhaps we can submit another ServiceNow ticket ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯.

#### Documentation

Once the transition to the new environment is complete, we should also want to prepare full documentation of the system. This documentation should include:

- Infrastructure setup and architectural diagrams
- A summary of the Terraform script
- Full technical documentation for the codebase
- Information on connecting to AppSheet
- A troubleshooting guide

We can store the source for these docs in CodeCommit as referenced above, but is may be useful to publish somewhere as well. Marek and Michael will work together to compile the relevant documentation once the transition is complete.

#### Spin Down TPA in Lab AWS

We will keep the Talking Points app running in the Lab environment for a little while. This will allow us to quickly revert should we run into any unexpected problems in the new environment. That said, assuming no issues with the CPMO AWS environment, we should be able to shut down TPA with the Lab environment in short order (ideally by mid-March).
