---
title: February 17, 2021
tags: [Commons, Dependencies]
date: 2022-02-17
excerpt: "Minutes from the February 17, 2021 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we resolve to update dependencies."
---

## Commons Quick Hits

We started off the meeting by discussing some Commons items:

1. Terri sought to clarify how we intend to upgrade after the tech debt upgrade. Namely, will we update current production in place or will we spin up a new environment from backups and then switch the DNS to the new environment. Given the substantial changes (ie. switch to PostgreSQL, upgrade to Prisma 3) we want to be careful that we can revert should something go wrong. Depending on the level of effort we experience when upgrading dev and beta we can decide which approach we want to take when it comes to production.
1. Michael added the R&A users to the Commons beta site so that they can begin familiarizing themselves with the publishing process. Apparently some have asked for instructions for how to access the beta site. The log-in process is the same, except that the go to a different URL. We need to follow up with Anna to see if there is something other than that information which we need to provide.

## Dependency Updates

**Description:** Edwin asked the rest of the dev team if we should use the brief lull after the release of reports to update the application's dependencies. The last time we did a comprehensive dependency review was is [September 2021]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/09/14.html#dependency-updates' | relative_url }} ).

The team agreed that we will update the Commons dependencies following the [previously established rubric]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/06/17.html#dependabot-security-alerts' | relative_url }} ). Specifically:

> We will address dependency updates in the short period between a release and the start of work on the next feature. All resolvable updates recommended by Dependabot or npm audit will be accepted. Furthermore, non-security patch and minor updates will be rolled in. Major version updates will be evaluated and included at the teamâ€™s discretion.

Last time around Edwin updated the API, Terri updated the client, and Marek updated the server. We will rotate responsibilities, with Terri taking the server (mostly because she is in the midst of the Prisma update which involves major server changes). Marek will address the API and Edwin will work on the client. Marek will create tickets for each component and assign them as follows:

- API - Marek [CDP-2872](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2872)
- Client - Edwin [CDP-2871](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2871)
- Server - Terri [CDP-2870](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2870)

Marek also set up a [page]({{ '/studies/2022/02/spring-cleaning' | relative_url }} ) where each dev can keep track of the major dependencies that need to be reviewed and/or updated. This pages follows on the template established during the [Sept. 2021 dependency review]({{ '/dev_meetings/2021/09/14.html#dependency-updates' | relative_url }} ) and in it's current draft form contains information on the major dependencies that were not updated last time around.
