---
title: February 24, 2022
tags: [Talking Points, Okta]
date: 2022-02-24
excerpt: "Minutes from the February 24, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we prepare for the Talkings Points migration."
---

## Talking Point Migration - Final Preparations

**Description:** Michael and Marek did a final rundown of things that need to be done to transition the Talking Points input application over to the new CPMO AWS environment fronted by Okta authentication. The new production app is in place and everything is set up and ready to go.

1. Synchronize the database - Michael will take a snapshot of the current production database and copy it's data into the new source database. This way all content will be up to date.
1. With the database synced, we can add a [new data source in AppSheet](https://help.appsheet.com/en/articles/962066-using-data-from-mysql). It seems that only the primary account holder can add a new team source. Since Shawn is that account holder, we will provide him with the necessary credentials and walk him through the process of [connecting the new db](#connect-db). He will need the follow information to complete:
   > - Type: MySQL
   > - Server: To Be Provided
   > - Database: To Be Provided
   > - Username: To Be Provided
   > - Password: To Be Provided
   > - SSL Mode: Required
1. With that database connected and tested, we can switch the DNS over in Cloudflare. This will consist of two steps:
   1. Update the DNS rules so that the talkingpoints CNAME points to the new environment's load balancer.
   1. Disable Cloudflare Access by revoking any existing tokens and removing the talkingpoints whitelist rule.

<details id="connect-db">
<summary>Steps To Connect New DB</summary>
<ol>
  <li>
    Add a new database connection
    <ol>
      <li>Log into AppSheet admin</li>
      <li>Go to the "My account" tab</li>
      <li>Click on the "New Data Source" button</li>
      <li>Name the data source (ex. `tpa-dev`) and click on the "Cloud Database" option</li>
      <li>Enter the credentials and click on the "Test" and "Authorize Access" buttons</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
  <li>
    Change application data source:
    <ol>
      <li>Go to the "My apps" tab</li>
      <li>Select the talking points app</li>
      <li>Click on the "Data" nav link and view the "Tables" tab</li>
      <li>Find the two tables the pull from database-1 ("quotes" and "talking_points")</li>
      <li>For each of these tables, click the table to expand</li>
      <li>In the "Storage" section click on the "Source Path" dropdown and select the "browse for more data" option</li>
      <li>In the resulting modal, select the database connection added above from there choose the appropriate table (ie. the one matching the selected table name)</li>
      <li>Click the "Save" button at the top right of the page</li>
      <li>Refresh the app preview and confirm that is still shows the correct data</li>
    </ol>
   </li>
</ol>
</details>

**Recovery Contingency:** We will keep the connection to the current database and input app in the Lab AWS environment running. That way, should something go wrong, we can quickly revert by reconnecting the existing DB to the AppSheet app and reverting the DNS changes. We will maintain this posture for two weeks (ie. until March 11). At this time, if there are no issues, we can shut down the old input application and downsize to a smaller instance, which we will maintain for a further month (ie. until April 11). At that point, if all is nominal we can shut down the Lab version entirely.

**Last Word:** Marek heard back from the CPMO team about the added permissions that we requested. They would like to schedule a meeting to discuss, so Marek will try to set something up for Monday (Feb. 28)afternoon.

## Non-Enterprise Users Commons

**Description:** Michael reported that Pierce can not access Commons with his america.gov account even though he has been successfully added to the non-enterprise Commons Okta group.

Michael says that Pierce is receiving a the error message `Unable to authenticate. Cannot authenticate users from domain america.gov`. Michael suspected that the problem is arising from the `emailDomainRestriction` Lambda function. Looking at the Lambda function, Marek and Michael identified the offending code. Namely, line 18 checks the identity provider and only if it is Google does it permit the america.gov domain. This stems from the formerly bifurcated authentication which routed america.gov users through one login flow and state.gov users through another.

The fix is simply to remove the now unnecessary ternary statement checking the name of the identity provider. Rather, the `allowedDomains` variable can be collapsed into a single array which includes america.gov, state.gov, and all other permitted domains.

```js
/* emailDomainRestriction Lambda line 18*/

// Current list:
allowedDomains = userIdentities[0].providerName === 'Google' ? ['america.gov'] : ['state.gov', ...];

// Should be:
allowedDomains = ['america.gov', 'state.gov', ...];
```

We may in the future want to add a check of the identity provider and reject all requests not originating from State Department's Okta, but that is a separate concern.

**Next Steps:** Michael will test the theory by adding america.gov to the second array in the ternary which should allow america.gov logins regardless of the identity provider. Hopefully, this will resolve Pierce's immediate access needs. He will the test the amended version of the Lambda featuring a single list of domains on the development environment, before implementing in production.

**_Update_:** Adding america.gov to the list of allowed domains corrected the issue. In a fortuitous turn of events, this seems to have also resolved Anna's difficulties logging in.
