---
title: June 15, 2021
layout: post
tags: [GraphQL, Style Guide, Changelog, Next.js, MWP, AWS]
---

## 1) GraphQL Operation Names

**Description:** The GraphQL spec allows for the use of meaningful and explicit name when defining GraphQL operations (queries, mutations, and subscriptions). While they typically do not impact the functionality of an application, these "operation names" are generally encouraged because they are helpful when debugging an application or reading server-side logs. (For more information, see the [GraphQL docs](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#operation-name))

We use operation names throughout the client codebase, however, we do not follow a consistent naming convention. We are currently using three different conventions across our client-side GraphQL operations:

1. Exactly the same as the gql query string constant (screaming snake case, with operation type appended) (😱 🐍)
1. Pascal case version of the gql query string constant (🐫 ❓)
1. Pascal case version of the gql query string constant without the operation type (🐫)

**Examples** (from `lib/graphql/queries/graphic.js`):

😱 🐍 - _Case 1 (line 134):_

```js
export const PUBLISH_GRAPHIC_PROJECT_MUTATION = gql`
  mutation PUBLISH_GRAPHIC_PROJECT_MUTATION($id: ID!) {...}
`;
```

🐫 ❓ - _Case 2 (line 247):_

```js
export const TEAM_GRAPHIC_PROJECTS_QUERY = gql`
  query TeamGraphicProjectsQuery(
`;
```

🐫 - _Case 3 (line 126):_

```js
export const DELETE_GRAPHIC_PROJECT_MUTATION = gql`
  mutation DeleteGraphicProject($id: ID!) {...}
`;
```

Looking at our current operation names, the screaming snake variant is the most popular choice by some margin, although with significant deviations among graphics and packages operations:

| Type  | common | document | graphic | package | playbook | user | util | video | total |
| ----- | ------ | -------- | ------- | ------- | -------- | ---- | ---- | ----- | ----- |
| 😱 🐍 | 8      | 3        | 4       | 7       | 6        | 4    | 3    | 16    | 51    |
| 🐫 ❓ | 0      | 0        | 1       | 1       | 0        | 0    | 0    | 0     | 2     |
| 🐫    | 0      | 1        | 9       | 6       | 1        | 0    | 0    | 4     | 21    |

The only operation names that really have the potential to be problematic are the ones that share the same name. For example in `lib/graphql/queries/package.js`, the `PACKAGE_QUERY`, `PACKAGE_DETAILS_QUERY`, and `PACKAGE_FILES_QUERY` operations all share the operation name `Playbook`. While not necessarily a source of bugs, such name reuse has the potential to cause confusion and should be avoided when possible.

For what it's worth, the Apollo GraphQL docs tend to use the Pascal case variant without the query type appended. However, they do not alway use the same name as the gql tag constant, as seen in these two examples:

```js
const GET_DOGS = gql`
  query GetDogs {
    dogs {
      id
      breed
    }
  }
`;
```

[see here for full code](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/queries/#executing-a-query)

```js
const GET_DOG_PHOTO = gql`
  query Dog($breed: String!) {
    dog(breed: $breed) {
      id
      displayImage
    }
  }
`;
```

[see here for full code](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/data/queries/#caching-query-results)

Similarly, the official [GraphQL docs](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#operation-name) use Pascal case without the operation type appended:

```graphql
query HeroNameAndFriends {
  hero {
    name
    friends {
      name
    }
  }
}
```

**Decision:** The team did not have a strong preference for any one style. Despite the community conventions mentioned above, we decided it is best to persist with the screaming snake case with operation type for the following reasons:

1. Using an operation name identical to the variable used to reference it in the code makes it easy to match up one to the other.
1. It allows us to quickly distinguish the operation name from the actual GraphQL operation which is lowercase.
1. Appending the operation type helps avoid mistakenly importing the wrong operation.
1. Already being the most commonly used variant in our codebase, it requires the least amount of refactoring.

**Next Steps:** Update non-conforming operation names when convenient.

## 2) Squashing Excessive Changelog Entries

**Description:** Marek pointed out that we have a number of entries in the `Unreleased` section of the client Changelog that should be merged and/or simplified. While it is convenient to use this section to quickly jot down what has changed in each PR, these entries needs to be refined prior to release. Below is a selection of recommendations based on the entries added to the Changelog [since v5.4.8](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/compare/v5.4.8...162bb2811e12837889452350048d79b4fac965a6#diff-06572a96a58dc510037d5efa622f9bec8519bc1beab13c9f251e97e657a9d4ed).

### Condense Like Entries:

We have a number of repetitive entries in the Changelog at the moment. In cases like this, where the same change is made in a number of places, the entry should be condensed into a single Changelog entry.

_Current:_

```md
## Changed:

- Use CSS modules for SearchInput component styling
- Use CSS modules for Priorities and Recents component styling
- Use CSS modules for FilterSelections component styling
- Use CSS modules for ResultsHeader component styling
- Use CSS modules for ResultsToggleView component styling
- Use CSS modules for ProjectHeader component styling
```

_Revised:_

```md
## Changed:

- Style the following components with CSS modules: FilterSelections, Priorities, ProjectHeader, Recents, ResultsHeader, ResultsToggleView, SearchInput
```

### Group Like Entries:

Similar to condensing entries, we have a number of related, albeit slightly different entries. In such cases the entries should be grouped together and can be listed as subitems on a single Changelog entry.

_Current:_

```md
## Changed:

- Replace Semantic UI Grid in Priorities and Recents with CSS grid
- Replace Semantic UI Item in Priorities and Recents with native HTML elements
- Replace Semantic UI Card in ResultItem with native HTML elements
- Replace Semantic UI Header in SearchTerm with native HTML elements
- Replace Semantic UI delete Icon in FilterSelectionItem with an SVG
- Replace Semantic UI Label in FilterSelectionItem with native HTML elements
- Replace Semantic UI Header and Img in Header with native HTML elements
- Replace Semantic UI Form, Grid, Input in PressPackageFile with native HTML elements
```

_Revised:_

```md
## Changed:

- Replace Semantic UI components with native HTML elements:
  - Grid and Item elements in the Priorities and Recents components
  - Header and Img elements in the SearchTerm and Header components
  - Delete Icon (swap for an SVG) and Label elements in the FilterSelectionItem component
  - Form, Grid, and Input elements in the PressPackageFile component
```

### Only List Changes to Previous Release:

A more subtle issue is when additions made early in the release cycle are changed/added upon later in the release cycle. Since the Changelog is intended to demonstrate changes since the last release, intra-release changes to new features/not yet released features should be excluded from the Changelog. Rather they should be listed as a single unified entry.

_Current:_

```md
## Added:

- Playbook query, createPlaybook mutation and associated builders
- Playbook admin route
- Mutation for updating a playbook: UPDATE_PLAYBOOK_MUTATION <-- Part of first entry
- Preview playbook links to PlaybookEdit <-- Can be merged into general entry on preview functionality
- Admin preview banner message to Playbook <-- Can be merged into general entry on preview functionality

## Changed:

- Replace PlaybookDetailsForm and PackageDetailsForm with PackageForm <-- Only mention what changed from previous release
- Remove initialSchema from PlaybookDetailsForm and PackageDetailsForm validation schemas <-- Only mention what changed from previous release
- Replace mock mutation with updatePlaybook mutation in PlaybookEdit <-- Change of unreleased feature
- Switch to [...slug] catch all route from [id] for admin/package/playbook route to allow for preview param <-- Change of unreleased feature
- Use CSS modules for PlaybookEdit component <-- Change of unreleased feature
- Adjust focus styling for Playbook header buttons <-- Change of unreleased feature

## Fixed:

- PropType for policy in PlaybookDetailsFormContainer <-- Fix of unreleased feature
```

_Revised:_

```md
## Added:

- Playbook query as well as create, update, and delete mutations and their associated builders
- Playbook admin route at `admin/package/playbook/[id]`
- Playbook preview functionality accessible from PlaybookEdit screen or dashboard

## Changed:

- Replace PackageDetailsForm with PackageForm
- Remove initialSchema from PackageDetailsForm validation schemas
```

We also discussed how the Changelog differs from the Release Notes for Commons, namely they are intended for different audiences and hence convey different information.

Release Notes are a lay man's description of what new features hae been added or bugs addressed since the last version. They are intended for the end user and should require no technical knowledge to understand. Technical jargon should be omitted or obscured with generalizations like "performance optimizations".

The Changelog, on the other hand, is a high level _technical_ overview of changes between releases. The intended audience is developers, who should be able to quickly comprehend the major components that were added/modified from one release to the next. The Changelog should be as brief and "scannable" as possible and should not read like a list of commits. Rather it should be a jumping of point from which developers can dig deeper when issues arise.

If needed, a more granular "play-by-play" changes can be found in the actual commit history via the GitHub or the git log.

## 3) Next.js 11

Vercel held a virtual conference earlier today releasing Next.js [Version 11](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-11). Since this event occurred during our Commons sprint retrospective, we missed the bulk of it. However, the video is available on YouTube for on demand watching:

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center;">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ze8ycxc1UzE" title="Next.js Conf - Special Edition" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

During the dev meeting, we briefly discussed a few of the things we noticed from the portion of the announcement we did see:

1. A continued focus on built-in image optimization including blurred placeholder images.
1. Built-in ESLint support. Unusually, the lint config is used to identify Next.js-specific optimization issues in addition to more traditional issues.

## 4) Readout from MWP Dev Environment Setup

Last week (June 10) Marek met with Daniel from the Web team to set up a development environment for the MWP 2.0 site (Edwin sat in as an observer). This is a brand new set up for use with the contractors from Eagle Harbor.

The environment runs fully in the cloud on Elastic Kubernetes Service, with new instances spun up as needed using [Cloudformation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/). The Docker image definitions are maintained in the Web team's Bitbucket and deployed from ECR.

Each developer is provisioned with a WordPress instance running on a dedicated sub-domain of the MWP development environment. Additionally, all the source code is available for editing in a dedicated Code Server instance, with is accessible at a subdomain of the WordPress instance. The Code Server gives each developer a remote VSCode server with integrated terminal. Extensions and themes can be configured and should persist, but Daniel hasn't played around with that too much.

They use [Argo CD](https://argoproj.github.io/argo-cd/) to manage application deployments and lifecycle.

> Argo CD automates the deployment of the desired application states in the specified target environments. Application deployments can track updates to branches, tags, or pinned to a specific version of manifests at a Git commit.

Additionally, [Okteto](https://okteto.com/) is used to set up and deploy each developer's replica environment.

> Okteto provides a local development experience for Kubernetes applications. You code locally in your favorite IDE and Okteto synchronizes it automatically to your cluster. The Okteto CLI is open source, and the code is available at Github. It is a client-side only tool that works in any Kubernetes cluster.

Running the `okteto up` command from the `mwp` directory spins up a Kubernetes cluster with the following pods:

- Builder (the Okteto service)
- Code Server
- Apache - WordPress instance
- Redis Cache
- 2 Authentication Proxies (one for Apache, one for Code Server)
- Data import
- Three WP-cron containers (run WP-CLI every 15 minutes)

The development database can be synced from production backups using a built-in data importer. This consists of a MySQL dump with followed by a couple scripts to search and replace the relevant blog configurations and asset URLs. Currently this update must be initiated by a system admin.

The source for the MWP theme is found within the `mwp` directory on the Code Server instance. Running `npm run dev` will kick off Gulp to watch and recompile any changes to JavaScript, CSS, and Advanced Custom fields files. Allowing for live reloading to test changes. One short coming, particularly given our team is that source code for the plugins are not found in this repo. This is because they do not do much plugin development as a team so it is not a use case they need. Rather all plugins are installed from remote sources via Composer.

## 5) Commons S3 Permissions

**Description:** In the course of completing [CDP-2379](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2379) - which hooks up the publishing of playbooks - Terri ran into a permissions error with S3. Specifically, additional resources were uploaded correctly to the authoring bucket, but when she clicked on the publish button, she received a permission denied error for the publication bucket.

Initially, we thought that we might have rotated out the keys that she was using. However, on closer inspection we found that she was using a valid key pair for the `s3-local` IAM user. This programmatic user has access to the requisite development buckets via the `s3-local-buckets` policy.

Eventually, Michael identified that the `s3-local-buckets` policy was missing some permissions required to copy objects from one bucket to another. A user with that policy could upload to either of the buckets in question, but could not copy objects from one to the other. He resolved the issue by adding the following actions to the `s3-local-buckets` policy:

- `s3:GetBucketTagging`
- `s3:DeleteObjectVersion`
- `s3:ListBucketVersions`
- `s3:GetBucketLogging`
- `s3:GetBucketPolicy`
- `s3:GetEncryptionConfiguration`
- `s3:PutBucketTagging`
- `s3:GetObjectVersionAcl`
- `s3:DeleteObjectTagging`
- `s3:GetBucketPolicyStatus`
- `s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads`
- `s3:PutObjectVersionTagging`
- `s3:DeleteObjectVersionTagging`
- `s3:GetBucketVersioning`
- `s3:GetBucketNotification`
- `s3:ListMultipartUploadParts`
- `s3:PutObjectVersionAcl`

We also briefly reviewed the changes Michael recently made to permissions within the Commons Environment. Rather than authenticating with an secret key-value pair associated with a given IAM service role, Michael has implemented the use of [server-based instance profiles](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_use_switch-role-ec2_instance-profiles.html). These instance profiles depended on an EC2 instance's metadata to generate and automatically rotate authentication keys every 15 minutes. As such they are much more secure than secret keys and reduce the burden of key management and rotation. However, they are only available within the AWS environment so we must continue to use secret keys for local development.

When the secret keys are not available to the code, the AWS SDK is able to fall back to instance profiles allowing for a seamless transition. For Commons, we have already enable the use of instance profiles all the way through to production.
