---
title: June 10, 2021
tags: [CKEditor, ClamAV, Commons]
---

## 1) Commons Error

**Description:** Temi identified an issue on Commons Dev wherein the playbook edit screen was showing a 500 error. Neither Edwin nor Marek were able to replicate the issue on their local environments, however, the application was returning the following error:

```text
message: 'Unexpected token < in JSON at position 0',
extraInfo: undefined }
Error: Your `getServerSideProps` function did not return an object. Did you forget to add a `return`?
at renderToHTML (/app/node_modules/next/dist/next-server/server/render.js:42:125)
at process.\_tickCallback (internal/process/next_tick.js:68:7)
{ Error: Unexpected token < in JSON at position 0
at new ApolloError (/app/node_modules/@apollo/client/errors/errors.cjs.js:31:28)
at /app/node_modules/@apoll
```

As the error indicates, there was no return present in an instance of `getServerSideProps`. The issue was introduced this morning in [PR #297](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/297) which added the playbook preview functionality. As of this PR, the admin playbook page is generated using the [getServerSideProps data fetching](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/data-fetching#getserversideprops-server-side-rendering) method from Next.js. This method must always return an object, and in our implementation there was a [catch statement](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/blob/36fe128b62456ee781d734aa2546fa58fb0653cf/pages/admin/package/playbook/%5B...slug%5D.js#L48) that simply logged the error without returning anything.

The 500 error was quickly resolved by adding a return of an empty props object to in the catch statement. However, we continued to experience other errors and blank loading screens on the package preview page which we attempted to troubleshoot as a group at the conclusion of the meeting.

## 2) ClamAV

**Description:** Michael has run into a bit of a roadblock implementing virus scanning of S3 assets. Specifically, the ClamAV lambda function copies the newly uploaded file from S3 into the system `tmp` directory where it runs the analysis. This presents a problem as the temporary file system created for use by AWS lambda functions has a hard limit of 512 MB, which is smaller than some of the file we intend to scan.

One possible fix is to [mount an Elastic File System (EFS) volume to the lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/using-amazon-efs-for-aws-lambda-in-your-serverless-applications/), which allows you to extend the storage limitations inherent to AWS Lambda. Another option is to set up a dedicated EC2 cluster and run ClamAV there rather than as a lambda function.

We could also consider other alternatives entirely, such as:

- [VirusTotal](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/) - Seems to be API-driven, which may require uploading of files to their environment. If true this would be a non-stater for internal documents. Additionally, the free tier has a limit of 4 API calls per minute for a total of 500 requests per day. While our upload numbers are well within the daily limit, our users frequently upload more that 4 files at a time.
- [bucketAV](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-sykoblbsdgw2o) - Pre-configured managed service available in the AWS marketplace. Has the benefit of residing entirely within our AWS account, malware signatures are continually updated, and it provides configurable automated mitigation such as quarantines, deletions, tagging, and notification. The reported typical cost is $0.136/hour (~$1,200 for a full year).

**Next Steps:** Michael will attempt to setup an EFS volume that mounts to the AWS Lambda.

## 3) Commons Category Dropdown

**Description:** Edwin has noticed that the category dropdown does not seem to be validating properly in the playbook edit page. The validation schema appears to be set correctly but the form passes validation even when no categories have been selected.

**Next Steps:** Add a bug ticket to the backlog ([CDP-2408](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2408) likely for next sprint).

## 4) CKEditor Image Uploads

**Description:** Edwin further investigated the issue whereby adding gifs or large images to the text editor resulted in an error response (`413 Request Entity Too Large`) and blocked the saving of data. The images are converted to base64 data urls and added to the content of the text editor. This dramatically increase the size of the data sent over the wire. Through additional testing, he found that images didn't really need to be all that large to trigger the error. In fact about 36 KB (either in a single image or a combined total for multiple images) was sufficient to exceed the request limit. The limit is for all data irrespective of type, so text alone can also exceed the limit (this seems to happen at about 7,700 words).

It is unclear where the error is coming from. Edwin looked into increasing the request limit in body parser, but the default appears to already 100 KB. Marek recalled seeing a GraphQL error indicating a 50 KB limit and posited that Apollo was setting the constraint.

The current threshold limit should be sufficiently high for textual content, but we will have to monitor usage and ensure that users aren't running into issues upon release. Perhaps we can analyze a representative sample of existing playbooks to identify an average word count/size so that we know where or not to anticipate issues.

If we want to allow images in the the text editor, then we almost certainly have to add a custom adaptor to CKEditor that offloads the images to S3 and returns an asset URL for use in the playbook. CKEditor provides some documentation on writing such uploader adapters including a [simple example using XHR](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/features/image-upload/simple-upload-adapter.html) and a more [detailed write up](https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor5/latest/framework/guides/deep-dive/upload-adapter.html) that explains the editor's file upload architecture.

**Next Steps:** We strongly recommend disabling image upload for this initial release of playbooks. We can revisit images after we release the MVP at which time we'll explore writing a custom upload adapter.
