---
title: July 06, 2021
tags: [Lab Notes, Playbooks, Talking Points, Courses]
date: 2021-07-06
---

## Contributing to Dev Meeting Notes

Marek provided the rest of the development team with a walk-through of his process for publishing notes from our dev meetings.

### Background

The dev meeting notes are published to a documentation site attached to one of our repositories. There are several levels to this doc site:

- [GitHub pages](https://pages.github.com/) - A free, hosted service provided by GitHub that allows users to easily generate documentation sites from within the `docs` directory of a given repository.
- [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) - A static site generator written in Ruby and built into GitHub Pages.
- [Lab Notes](https://iip-design.github.io/lab-notes/) - A custom Jekyll theme built specifically to style documentation sites for GPA Lab repositories.
- [Lab Tools doc site](https://iip-design.github.io/lab-tools/) - A GitHub pages site built using the Lab Notes theme to document the [Lab Tools repository](https://github.com/IIP-Design/lab-tools). This repository is where the dev meeting notes are stored.

For the purposes of this demonstration we are only concerned with the final level of this stack (i.e. the Lab Tools doc site). The Lab Tools repository hosts several experimental tools meant to improve the developer experience for the Lab team. More pertinent to this discussion, the `docs` directory of this repository is intended to serve as an archive of useful information for the Lab team's developers. Among these artifacts is the official record of internal deliberations conducted during the twice-weekly dev team meetings.

### Features

All pages of the Lab Tools doc site are written in markdown. The site supports all standard markdown features including:

- formatting such as headings (h1-h6), bold, italics, and strikethrough
- inline code snippets and code blocks with language-specific syntax highlighting
- links to both internal and external URLs
- lists (ordered and unordered)
- embedded images
- blockquote, table, checklist, and detail elements
- emoji

A good summary of these features and their syntax can be found [here](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet).

There are some additional features provided by the theme such as:

- a blog roll element
- a video embed element
- presentation and changelog post types

These features are unlikely to be used when contributing dev meeting notes, but are documented in the Lab Notes [doc site](https://iip-design.github.io/lab-notes/).

### Contributing

Any attendee of the dev meeting is encouraged to add/augment the minutes from these meetings. Below is a list of steps to add a new page of meeting notes:

1. Pull down the Lab tools repo by running `git clone https://github.com/IIP-Design/lab-tools`
1. Navigate to the docs directory in the cloned repository using the command `cd lab-tools/docs/`
1. Add new markdown file to the `_dev_meetings` directory. By convention this file should use the date (YYYY-MM-DD) of the meeting as the file name. For example: `_dev_meetings/2021-07-06.md`
1. Open the newly created markdown file and add a title property to the page [front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/). By convention the title for dev meeting notes should be the date of the meeting in the following format: `title: July 06, 2021`
1. Add a tags property to the markdown page front matter. These tags are used to categorize the content of the meeting and facilitate quick discovery of relevant information. We recommend adding one tag per content section. Tags should be listed as an array of coma separated valued. For example: `tags: [documentation, Lab Notes]`
1. Add a date property to the markdown page front matter. While every Jekyll page has an implicit date, it is advisable to explicitly set the page date using this property. This will ensure that the dev meeting pages are listed in the correct order. Dates should be added using the YYYY-MM-DD format. For example: `date: 2021-07-06`
1. Add whatever content you like to the body of the markdown page (i.e. outside of the front matter). We recommend breaking the content up into topic-based sections separated by an h2 heading. To increase usability of the site, you can augment the text of the notes with code example, images, and linked resources.
1. You can use the built-in development server to check your contributions before publishing. If this is the first time running the development server, run `bundle install` from the `lab-tools/docs/` directory to install the required dependencies. Once you have done this, you can run `bundle exec jekyll serve` from the same directory to run a local version of the site at `localhost:4040`.
1. Once you are satisfied with your contributions, commit the changes and push them up to GitHub (preferably in the form of a PR). When these changes are merged into the main branch of the repository, the documentation site will automatically rebuild with your updates included.

## Playbooks Initial Publish Date

The team discussed an issue raised with in [PR #64](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/64#issuecomment-874781454) on the Content Commons server. When testing the changes locally, Marek found that the initial publish date was not the same as the publish date on a newly created playbook. This is problematic because it is the comparison of these two values that determines whether the playbook shows a "Published" or an "Updated" date.

The discrepancy is likely caused by the fact that one date is generated on the the server, while the other is generated in Elasticsearch. To resolve this issue, a single date should be generated and used to populate both values.

When a playbook is published, an initial publish date will be generated on the server. This date will then be sent to Elasticsearch along with the rest of the playbook data. This will allow for the playbook object in Elasticsearch to be initialized with the same initial publish date as that available in GraphQL.

The publish date will continue to be generated separately meaning that there might be a difference between that timestamps in GraphQL and Elasticsearch. However, we are not overly concerned if there is a slight date discrepancy between the timestamps on the frontend (retrieved from Elasticsearch) and the backend (retrieved from GraphQL) so long as the timestamps are consistent in their given context. In any case, we should add some fuzzing to allow for minimal differences in the timestamps (on the order of one second).

One problematic area is the playbooks on the frontend, which currently pulls data from GraphQL. Meanwhile, the playbook cards in the search results pull data from Elasticsearch. This might cause a discrepancy between the Published/Updated date displayed on the playbook versus that displayed on the card.

This actually points to a larger issue, namely the misapplication of GraphQL queries to the playbook frontend. All frontend components should use data from Elasticsearch rather then GraphQL whenever possible. This affords a greater degree of isolation for the GraphQL endpoint thereby improving the security of the application. As a result, the playbook page needs to be refactored to pull (and normalize) data from the public API rather than the GraphQL endpoint. Temi created a ticket ([CDP-2462](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2462)) to remedy this issue.

## Playbook Support File Properties

In the Commons client [PR #316](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-client/pull/316), Marek noted that the `signedUrl` property on playbooks returns a link to the authoring bucket rather than the production bucket. This seems like an odd choice and we could not account for a case where a signed authoring bucket URL would be required. Further investigation is needed to ensure that the authoring bucket signed URL is not used anywhere, but barring that, this value should be a signed URL to the published bucket.

In a similar vein, Marek reported support files for different content types are returning different values for the same property. Specifically, in the URL field, playbooks are returning just the path to the asset (without the bucket URL) where as graphics are returning the full URL including the bucket URL. While this may not be a problem in and of itself, it can potentially lead to some confusion and prevent generalized components.

**_Update (07/06/21):_** Upon further investigation it seems that the the URL property on support files is actually returning a consistent value for support files (i.e. the asset path). The confusion in the original report appears to be the conflation of the GraphQL return for one content type with the Elasticsearch return for another.

A search for playbook support files on the dev playground returned:

```js
"playbooks": [
  {
    "supportFiles": [
      {
        "url": "playbook/2021/06/commons.america.gov_ckpr8769k0qdf0760ep7i9d43/RussiaConnects.pdf",
        "signedUrl": "https://amgov-publisher-dev.s3.amazonaws.com/playbook/2021/06/commons.america.gov_ckpr8769k0qdf0760ep7i9d43/RussiaConnects.pdf?AWSAccessKeyId=******&Expires=******&Signature=******"
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

Whereas a search for graphic support files returned:

```js
"graphicProjects": [
  {
    "supportFiles": [
      {
        "url": "social_media/2020/06/commons.america.gov_ckb85jlt2013l0806mmfpb34o/forest.jpg",
        "signedUrl": "https://amgov-publisher-dev.s3.amazonaws.com/social_media/2020/06/commons.america.gov_ckb85jlt2013l0806mmfpb34o/forest.jpg?AWSAccessKeyId=******&Expires=******&Signature=******"
      }
    ]
  },
]
```

In both these cases the URL property returns the path to the asset (rather than the full URL). The same was found for video project support files and press guidance package documents, rendering the reported issue moot.

That said, the use of the authoring bucket for the signed URL property on playbooks still needs to be investigated.

## Meeting with IRM Regarding TPA

Marek meet with the IRM's Cloud Program Management Office (CPMO) on Wednesday of last week (June 30) to touch base regarding the migration of the [Talking Points Application](https://github.com/IIP-Design/talking-points) (TPA) to their SE-AWS instance.

The conversation has not advanced much since the last time we spoke several months ago. The CPMO team asked for more details regarding the IAM roles that we require for our programmatic users and Terraform scripts in their environment. It seems that they did not receive the granular list of permissions that Michael generated some time ago.

Marek and Michael have a follow-up meeting with Torben and Nikhil from the IRM team scheduled for 2:00 pm on Thursday to discuss the technical details for provisioning the need IAM roles and next steps for the TPA migration.

## Courses

Marek has a meeting today at 1:30 pm with Rhonda from the Web team. She asked for an overview of the embedded courses setup, specifically she "need(s) to get a better understanding of how they work on the back end." Presumably, this has to do with the Web team's management of the [YALI](https://yali.state.gov/courses/) and [YLAI](https://ylai.state.gov/online-courses/) sites. If they are looking to migrate them to the MWP platform, they will probably need to account for migrating that functionality as well.

The team conducted a quick refresher on the setup since we haven't worked courses in the last two to three years. The heart of the system is the [America API Client](https://github.com/IIP-Design/America-API-Client) WordPress plugin. This plugin - installed on any host WordPress instance - connects to the courses site API to retrieve course data. It also loads the courses React module on the host site frontend, in effect using our S3 bucket as a CDN. Together the API data and React module allow the host site to embed courses on it's pages/posts using a shortcode registered by the America API Client plugin. The entire system can be represented as so:

![A host WP site contains the America API client plugin. This plugin registers the course shortcode. It then gets course data from the courses WP site at courses.america.gov. It then loads the frontend JavaScript and CSS bundle from the courses module, which is a JS file stored in S3. All of this returns a site page with an embedded course.]({{ '/assets/courses-setup.svg' | relative_url }} "Infographic demonstrating the courses setup")

For the most part, installing the plugin should be sufficient to get the course embeds operational on the host site. There are some wrinkles however when it comes to more complex features.

1. At present the course listing pages are simply custom page templates provided by host site's theme. Each listing item links to another page that contains the relevant course shortcode.
1. The course search functionality available on the YALI site is also built into the site theme. [Limited course data](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-documentation/blob/master/content-models/elasticsearch/course-content-type.json) is indexed into the CDP and available in the CDP public API. The YALI theme has a widget that queries course data in the CDP allowing for the construction of a dynamic, filterable list.
1. Most courses on YALI and YLAI generate user certificates upon completion. This functionality is completely outside of the courses setup.

It is notable that the current MWP 1.0 site already supports course embeds as demonstrated by the [YSEALI course page](https://asean.usmission.gov/education-culture/courses/).

**_Update (07/06/21):_** The meeting with Rhonda was pushed to Wednesday, July 7 at 11:30 am.
