---
title: July 08, 2021
tags: [Storytelling, DLT, Dev Domain]
date: 2021-07-08
---

## Commons Quick Hits

We started off the meeting by discussing some Commons items:

1. Temi asked about [CDP-2465](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-2465) wherein file downloads were not working for certain playbook additional resources. Since some resources are working properly, she wondered if she should be testing with different files or doing something differently. That does not seem to be the case and Marek suspects that there is something happening to prevent uploaded files from getting copied into the production bucket. Terri will take the ticket and look into the issue.
1. The team briefly talked about upgrading Elasticsearch on production. We would like to complete the upgrade in conjunction with the release of playbooks, but also believe it best to conduct the upgrade during the weekend/off hours. As a result it may not be possible to complete two updates at the same time.

## Storytelling Project Timeline

**Description:** Following Tuesday's (July 6) presentation on Digital Storytelling, the development team discussed timelines for the project. The Front Office wants the inaugural story to be about green jobs and to be released in conjunction with the 26th UN Climate Change [Conference of the Parties](https://ukcop26.org/) (COP26) on October 31.

The full notional timeline is as follows:

**July**
- Identify Story & Target Audience
- Identify Content Sources & Types
- Explore Concept Ideas & Executions

**August**
- Draft Story & Assemble Content (& Translations?)
- Finalize Concept Idea & Execution

**September**
- Build out digital story & QA
- Draft outreach strategy
- Begin clearance process

**October**
- Finalize clearances
- Promo campaign & launch prior to COP26

The development team is very concerned about this timeline. It provides just two months for technical design, building, testing, and deployment. We do not know what we're building yet and there is not much time for research.

That said, it seems unlikely that leadership will budge on the timeline. The best we can do is to:

1. Try to compress the initial phases of the project so that we can start development earlier;
1. Try to determine the outlines of the technical work and identify potential tasks as soon as possible;
1. Clearly and forcefully articulate the opportunity cost resulting from such short turnaround.

## Email from DLT

**Description:** At 10:45 today (July 8) we received and email from the Cloud Operations Team at DLT with the subject line "[ACTION REQUIRED] AWS Account Migration". DLT is our mandated AWS provider, but we have very little direct contact with them.

Despite the subject line, the email did not seem to indicate any action that needs to be taken. Rather, it stated the following and included contact information for their support center:

> Hello Friend,
>
> You are receiving this message because DLT is contractually obligated to provide support for your AWS account(s) and services. To open support cases, please use the following contact information. Our AWS trained and certified engineering teams are on duty 24x7x365 to provide support.

Michael believes that we received this notification because the Analytics team (which is on the same DLT provider account as us) has been submitting support tickets directly to AWS. Under the terms of our provider contract, support requests are supposed to go to DLT. Aside from alerting the Analytics team about this, there appears to be nothing required of us.

## Development Domain

**Description:** Michael stood up a copy of the Commons on the new development domain ([commons.gpalab.digital](https://commons.gpalab.digital)). He synced the data from the beta site and everything is built off of the develop branch.

The Recents and Priorities sections are missing, apparently due to a malformed request.

The public API is set up for (api.gpalab.digital) and is working, however, the Elasticsearch indices need to be aliased.

We also need to set up the Jenkins job/deployment pipeline.

We can decide how we want to use this environment after we've finished working on playbooks.