---
title: June 02, 2022
tags: [New Relic, Commons]
date: 2022-06-06
excerpt: "Minutes from the June 02, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. In which we discuss Commons."
---

## New Relic

**Description:** Michael notified the team that we need to switch to using the new(ish) [FedRAMP-compliant endpoints](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/security/security-privacy/compliance/fedramp-compliant-endpoints/) for New Relic. These endpoints provide a higher degree of data confidentiality, accessibility and integrity than the default one ad we are overdue for the move.

Michael already switched the PHP agent and infrastructure monitoring over to the FedRAMP-compliant endpoint a while ago. However, we still need to update the application configurations. Updating the APM clients seems a simple as adding a new environment variable to the New Relic config file.

```js
// newrelic.js
exports.config = {
  host: process.env.NEW_RELIC_HOST, // where NEW_RELIC_HOST = 'gov-collector.newrelic.com'

  /*
   * Other config settings...
   */
};
```

**Next Steps:** Marek and Terri will review the the New Relic docs to identify what exactly needs to be done and regroup next week to plan the implementation.

## Post-Prisma 3 Database Issues

**Description:** Marek has been having issues with his local Commons set up after migrating his data to Prisma version 3. Namely, his database is periodically wiped, often without even interacting with the application. The schema and tables are remain in place, however all of the contents therein are deleted.

There is no obvious cause for this behavior. Generally, the first indication that something is wrong is when the. Marek has seen the following error message a few times :

```bash
cause: "No 'Language' record(s) (needed to inline the relation on 'LanguageTranslation' record(s)) was found for a nested connect on one-to-many relation 'LanguageToLanguageTranslation'."
```

The stack trace indicates that this error is the result of a call to `prisma[model].create`, of which there ae three instances on the server:

1. The [`execute`](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/blob/develop/prisma/seed/utils.js#L72) function in `prisma/seed/utils.js`
1. The [`create`](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/blob/develop/src/resolvers/helpers/generators/mutationResolvers.js#L45) function in `src/resolvers/helpers/generators/mutationResolvers.js`
1. The [`createWithAssetPath`](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/blob/develop/src/resolvers/helpers/generators/mutationResolvers.js#L15) function in `src/resolvers/helpers/generators/mutationResolvers.js`

The later two are methods on `ctx` which doesn't appear in the stack trace, which would imply that the seed is at fault. However, this behavior has occurred even when a seed was not run.

Following this thread, Terri pushed a [branch](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/pull/129) called `language_seed` which changes some of the promise structure used in the language seed. She asked Marek to pull the changes and sit with them for a while to see if this resolves the issue. While he hasn't had a recent recurrence, Marek is unconvinced that the seeding caused issues with his local database since it has been wiped even when he didn't run a seed. Regardless, the changes seem to work fine so Terri will merge `language_seed` branch.

Michael suggested that Marek reduce the permissions for the database user to the bare minimum for keeping the application running. That way, if it try to initiate an operation to drop all the data an error will be thrown, which may in turn point towards the cause.

## Odds and Ends

- Following up on last week's [conversation about the need for accurate mockups]({{ '/dev_meetings/2022/05/26/#testing' | relative_url }}), Terri suggested that Temi and Ahmad reach out to Anna to ask her to update the mocks now that she is back in the office.
- Today the team was joined by Micah, who completing a [FAIT Fellowship](https://www.faitfellowship.org/) with the team over the next 10 weeks. Marek encouraged other team members to include her in and meetings/conversation that may be of interest and to work with her to identify appropriate things to work on.
