---
title: June 07, 2022
tags: [housekeeping, production]
date: 2022-06-07
excerpt: "Meeting minutes from the June 07, 2022 GPA Lab Dev meeting. In this meeting, the current hotfix was deprioritized in favor of search issues found in production."
---

## Housekeeping

**Hotfix Testing:** Hotfixes should be tested in Beta, everything else should be be tested in Dev. The QA Environment will be terminated. In the hotfix, links in the email notification to unsubscribe or resubscribe are not working. 

**Problems in Production:** Links in the Playbook campaign card after "Browse All" keep loading and nothing shows up. This issue is present in production, unrelated to the hotfix.

```js
const [type] = findAllValuesForKey( { ...policyData, ...categoryData }, '__typename' );
```

The query must match the category and policy name, the Human playbook is working because it appears in both the policy and category. An example of the issue can be found [here](https://commons.america.gov/playbooks/climate-crisis). Add this as a ticket before pushing the hotfix. 

**Additional Issues:** "Latest Guidance Packages" tiles are not displaying properly, likely CSS style issue. Cherry-pick a commit (?), which goes to main, and then separately fix the problems in production through a fix to the server code?

## Teams Modal

**Problems:** Does a user get kicked out of the Team they are a part of if it is deactivated? What happens if a user moves from one Team to another? If a user is logged in and gets the email to "log in for the first time" and clicks on it, they should not have to go to the first-time user login page.


## Retrospective

The email notifications weren't tested properly, to avoid spamming people. Playbook issues may have stemmed from confusion about the environment and the speed of the release. PR are also too big, and are hampering code review and testing. One solution may be to move to a 3-week sprint to allow for a full week of testing.  

## Next Steps

Everyone needs to create tickets for the issues discussed. Anna can possibly write the AC, if the tickets are created. Email notifications should be fully tested in the automated regression testing. Do a deployment checklist for the upcoming deployment in another meeting. 
