---
title: June 16, 2022
tags: [Commons, Press Guidance]
date: 2022-06-16
excerpt: 'Meeting minutes from the June 16, 2022 GPA Lab Dev meeting. In this meeting, we discuss an issue with press guidance documents in Commons.'
---

## Troubleshooting Commons Issues

Terri provided the team with a readout of what she discovered regarding the broken playbook notification feature ([CDP-3000](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3000)). Previously, Prisma returned a `__typename` property on all query responses. This was used when pulling the list of users to be added to the recipients list uploaded to S3 (which kicks off the notification Lambda). This property is no longer provided in Prisma 3, therefore the list of recipients was no longer being generated. To avoid further recurrence of these sorts of issues, Terri opted to [return type names on all queries](https://github.com/IIP-Design/content-commons-server/commit/4fbfc08b2674bec603b185ca4c38bcf88747f7af).

Another problem seems to be that the parsed text of uploaded PDF files is not being saved to the content node on the document uploads. The actual files and their associated thumbnail images are getting saved to S3, but they there are not appearing on the edit screen. This would indicate that there is some error in saving the data. Ticket [CPD-3005](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3005) was created to correct this issue and assigned to Edwin.

Ahmad also raised issues with the new team modal he is testing wherein the content type section is not loading and a server error is displayed. The cause of this error is that our current enum queries (like that for content types) depend on the `__type` property of. This is implicitly an introspection query, which is not allowed in production. Terri is already working on a fix for this with[CDP-3003](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3003).

The reason that most of these issues are cropping up for the first time in dev is that are the result of varied Prisma behavior due to the Node environment. When set to `production` - as is the case in all of our non-local environments - Prisma behaves in a much stricter fashion and several actions are disallowed. Perhaps we should be running our local environments in production mode as well (at least during the final tests) before passing our changes on to code review.

**Problems with Press Guidance:** The team also received a report from Julia of the press team, that they are running into issues when upload press guidance documents. Specifically, after a file has been uploaded, typing in the document file title field at times causes items on the page to rearrange. This leads to a disorienting and jarring user experience. While it is unclear why this behavior is only being observed now, it sounds like it has to do with the auto-save functionality on the page. Ticket [CDP-3006](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3006) was created to address this issue and assigned to Terri.
