---
title: June 23, 2022
tags: [Commons, Kubernetes, Deployment Checklist]
date: 2022-06-23
excerpt: "Minutes from the June 23, 2022 GPA Lab developer's meeting. During this meeting the deployment schedule for several proposed changes was decided."
---

## Testing Issues

**Description:** Temi was unable to test the PDF parsing bug fix described in [our last meeting]({{ 'dev_meetings/2022/06/21' | relative_url }}) because the dev API is down. Michael rolled back the to the last functioning API build, so any test Temi did complete were on the old codebase (i.e. before the changes meant to address [CDP-3005](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3005)).

The builds are failing with the following error:

```txt
> node -r newrelic build/consumer.js
internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:905
  throw err;
  ^
Error: Cannot find module 'elasticsearch/src/lib/connectors/http'
Require stack:
- /app/node_modules/http-aws-es/connector.js
```

**Next Steps:** This appears to be something with the way NPM packages are installing. The team agreed on the following course of action:

1. Clear the NPM cache on the Jenkins server
1. Re-run the build
1. Once the build successfully completes, Temi will test with a variety of PDF (including at least one provided by Edwin which is known to have a null character and to have failed in the past)
1. Once testing is complete on dev, merge `develop` into `main` and deploy to the beta environment for additional testing.
1. Assuming successfully testing on beta, CDP-3005 can be included in the hotfix release scheduled for tomorrow afternoon (June 24)

When the hotfixes are deployed to production (or at least tagged with a version number), we can merge `develop` into `main` for all three repos and deploy the user management updates to beta. These changes are significant (and Temi is out after Friday) so we should allow for a full week of regression testing by Ahmad on beta. We can then (tentatively) schedule a release of the user management features on late afternoon Thursday (June 30) or Friday (July 1). Since this requires a Prisma migration, we should certainly implement a content freeze.

## Kubernetes Upgrade

**Description:** Michael raised the issue of upgrading the Kubernetes version for the Commons platform. He has deployed the update in dev and beta, but has not completed the update in production. The primary reason for the delay is that it may result in nearly a full day of down time.

**Next Steps:** There isn't a great urgency in completing the update. For this reason we will wait until the user management functionality is released and in use for a bit before upgrading. An additional reason to wait is that Temi will be out of town until mid-July, and we would all feel better if she is around to test the upgrade. When we do move forward, it will likely be a weekend deployment to limit the impact on users.

## Deployment Checklist

The team identified two issues pertaining to press guidance and reports that necessitate a hotfix release.

1. Adding or removing a document file from a press guidance package does not result in a refetch of the query, so the page must be refreshed before the changes are evident ([CDP-3007](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3007)).
1. The presence of null characters in the parsed text of a PDF cannot be saved, causing an error during the thumbnail generation/saving ([CPD-3005](https://design.atlassian.net/browse/CDP-3005)).

**Update Window:** Friday June 24, 04:00 PM

**Personnel:** Terri, Michael, Ahmad, Temi, Edwin, Marek

**Content Freeze:** Not Required

**Order of Operation:**

1. Update changelogs for client and API
1. Tag the releases
   - ~~API: patch -> 6.1.3~~ _See note below_
   - Client: patch -> 5.13.9
1. Take snapshots for backup ( Prisma DB, Elasticsearch )
1. Run the builds via Jenkins:
   - Execute the client build
   - ~~Execute the API build~~ _See note below_
1. Update the releases notes
1. Merge the client hotfix into develop

**_Update (06/24/2022):_** We ran into some issues when deploying the API patch to develop. First the package `elasticsearch` was not installing for some reason. This (deprecated) package is a dependency of `http-aws-es`, which is itself is a very old package (two years since the last release). We decided to replace `http-aws-es` with [`aws-elasticsearch-connector`](https://github.com/compwright/aws-elasticsearch-connector), which is a recently update fork of `http-aws-es`. This resolved one issue, but then we ran into problems with the the `@elastic/elasticsearch` package. Namely, we started to see a `ProductNotSupportedError` error in the search responses received from the API. Some investigation led us to find that this package [stopped supporting non-elasticsearch distributions](https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch-js/issues/1519) (such as OpenSearch) in version 7.14. We were able to resolve the issue by [downgrading to version 7.13](https://github.com/IIP-Design/cdp-public-api/commit/4ae48a5398b4a206bfd4b100c744d1ec70ae5894), but perhaps we should investigate alternatives such as the the [official OpenSearch Node client](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-js). All told, changing the dependencies so late in the game made us nervous about deploying to production, so we decided to hold off on the API updates for now. These changes will be deployed to beta early next week and will be released together with the user management release.
